REMINDER: ABSTRACT DEADLINE 1st OCTOBER

The 2017 ASAB Winter meeting (Thursday 7th and Friday 8th December 2017):

Sexual selection: do we still need to test the alternatives?

Organised by Professor Nina Wedell and Dr David Shuker

ABSTRACT SUBMISSION NOW OPEN: DEADLINE 1st OCTOBER

The 30 years since the publication of Bradbury and Andersson's landmark
"Sexual selection: testing the alternatives" has seen a wealth of
new empirical data on the mechanisms and patterns of sexual selection,
alongside major theoretical advances. However, some key concerns remain,
including what drives the evolution of mate choice and how sexual
selection and natural selection interact. Moreover, the very definition
of sexual selection remains contested. In this meeting, we will explore
the latest findings in sexual selection, in terms of both theory and
experiment, to chart our progress in understanding this most beguiling
of evolutionary mechanisms, and to map the way forward for the next
generation of sexual selection researchers.

Our invited speakers are Suzanne Alonzo, David Hosken, and Hope Klug,
and we are also delighted that Christine Nicol will be presenting the
2017 Tinbergen Lecture during the meeting. We invite spoken and poster
presentations encompassing the widest range of current work on sexual
selection. Please note that due to space constraints, poster space will
unfortunately be limited.

The meeting will be held at the Zoological Society of London, Huxley
Lecture Theatre, London Zoo. As is traditional for the ASAB winter
meeting, there is no registration and delegates need to organise their
own accommodation and main meals. Tea and coffee will be provided
both days, along with a wine reception on the evening of the 7th. We
welcome those wishing to indicate their likely attendance however,
and we are very pleased to announce that abstract submissions for
spoken and poster presentations is now open (deadline 1st October
2017). An abstract submission form is available on our website:
http://asabwinter2017.weebly.com/ and only submissions using this form
will be accepted. Presentations will be chosen blind to author(s) and
host institution(s).

For further details, please visit our website
(http://asabwinter2017.weebly.com/) or contact us on our dedicated
conference email: asab2017@st-andrews.ac.uk

We very much look forward to seeing you in December,

Nina Wedell and Dave Shuker

David Shuker <dms14@st-andrews.ac.uk>

