2nd edition of the Workshop "Introductory Population Genomics: from Data
to Inference"

May 14-18 2018, Berlin (Germany)

http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course9/

Instructors: Dr. Martin Taylor
(http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t9/)

Dr. Lewis Spurgin (http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t8/)

Overview:

Next generation sequencing has revolutionized evolutionary biology
allowing unprecedented resolution and insight into evolutionary questions
that appeared intractable only a few years ago. The course will cover
the basics of population genomic analysis from SNP data onwards and will
cover the key analyses that may be required to successfully analyze a
population genetic data set. The course will NOT cover steps prior to
generation of a .vcf file or SNP data set such as NGS data demultiplexing,
clustering and SNP calling (This is covered in detail in the Introduction
to RADseq course).  This course will introduce Linux and the command
line environment, basic perl and python usage, file conversions and
manipulation, population structure and differentiation in R, outlier
analysis, landscape / seascape genomics and introgression. Having
completed the course, students should have a good understanding of the
software and methods available for population genomic analysis and be
competent in population genomic analysis.

Intended audience & assumed background:

This workshop is aimed at postgraduate students and early career
researchers who are interested in using population genomic tools in
their research. No previous experience of bioinformatics is required,
but an underpinning in evolutionary biology and basic population genetics
concepts such as Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium and FST are desirable. The
course will use a range of software including the Linux operating system
and R.

Teaching format:

The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see the detailed
curriculum below). Each session consists of a combination of lectures  and
practical exercises, with breaks at the organisers' discretion. There
will also be time for students to discuss their own problems and data.

Program:

Monday 14th-Classes from 9:30 to 17:30

Session 1- Introduction to Linux and the command line (Dr. Martin
Taylor)

-       Installation of required software

-       Introduction to linux operating system

-       Working on the command line. Basic bash shell commands and
        navigation.

-       Introduction to Perl and Python

Session 2 - Understanding genomic data formats (Dr. Martin Taylor)

-       Understanding and working with VCF files using VCF tools

-       Data conversion and manipulation using Plink

-       Text editors

Tuesday 15th-Classes from 9:30 to 17:30

Session 3- Introduction to genetic analysis in R (Dr. Lewis Spurgin)

-       Introduction to R

-       Reading data into R

-       Data manipulation in R

-       Introduction to Adegenet and other genetics packages

Session 4- Genomic diversity estimation (Dr. Lewis Spurgin)           

-       Estimating heterozygosity and nucleotide diversity

-       Hardy Weinberg

-       Linkage disequilibrium

-       Introduction to ggplot2

Wednesday 16th-Classes from 9:30 to 17:30

Session 5- Population structure and differentiation (Dr. Martin Taylor &
Dr. Lewis Spurgin)

-       Estimating and understanding FST

-       Visualising genetic structure using MDS and PCA

-       STRUCTURE and related software

-       Estimating migration

Session 6- Identifying selection within populations (Dr Lewis Spurgin)

-       Marker-based genetic diversity

-       Introduction to sliding windows

-       Tajima's D and related statistics

-       Introduction to GO analyses

Thursday 17th-Classes from 9:30 to 17:30

Session 7-Identifying selection among populations (Dr. Lewis Spurgin)

-       FST outlier analysis

-       EigenGWAS

Session 8-Incorporating landscape and seascape into population genomics
(Dr. Martin Taylor)

-       Seascape / landscape genetics

-       Environmental  / genomic correlation

Friday 18th-Classes from 9:30 to 17:30

Session 9-Hybridisation and introgression (Dr. Martin Taylor)

-       Identifying hybrids and introgression using genotype data

Session 10-Summary data troubleshooting session (Dr Martin Taylor &
Dr Lewis Spurgin)

-       Time to answer questions on any areas covered during week.

-       Talk to us about your own data

Available packages:

Course-only: course materials and coffee breaks (480 euros; VAT included) 

All-inclusive: course materials, coffee breaks, accommodation and meals
(795 euros; VAT included)

Full list of our courses and Workshops

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses DIRECTOR

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

