Young Investigator Symposium

Date: 

Wednesday, October 11, 2017:  9:00 am - 1:00 pm

Location: 
Robinson Hall Lower Library, 35 Quincy Street (Harvard Yard), Cambridge,
MA, USA

The Max Planck-Harvard Research Center for the Archaeoscience of the
Ancient Mediterranean (MHAAM), a collaboration between The Initiative
for the Science of the Human Past at Harvard (SoHP) and the Max Planck
Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, Germany (MPISHH)
announces an opportunity for recent and graduating seniors and Master's
students to participate in a Symposium scheduled at Harvard University
on Wednesday, October 11th, 2017.  Students will have an opportunity to
present cross-disciplinary research which utilizes modern scientific
tools and knowledge to illuminate the history of humanity, and to
network with other students and faculty members similarly engaged,
including Prof. Michael McCormick (Harvard University, Department of
History), Prof. Dr. Johannes Krause (MPISHH), David Reich (Harvard
Medical School, Department of Genetics), Prof. Dr. Philipp Stockhammer
(Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München), and other leaders in the
field.  An interest in the Ancient Mediterranean is desirable but not
indispensable.

For students coming from outside the Boston/Cambridge area for the October
11th Symposium, a limited number of awards of up to $500 to defray lodging
and travel costs are available.  Students interested in applying for
the Symposium should arrange to send a letter of application, along with
an abstract of research to be presented, a CV, an academic transcript,
and a letter of recommendation, to be submitted by September 27th at
the latest to sohpchair@fas.harvard.edu

New MHAAM PhD Fellowship Opportunity

The Symposium will also present a new PhD Fellowship opportunity for
the 2018-2019 academic year and beyond.  MHAAM is expecting to offer up
to three 5-year fully-funded PhD fellowships for study and research on
the science of the human past.  PhD degrees have been or will be awarded
through Harvard University, notably in the following departments:
·         The Archaeology Program within the Anthropology Department
·         History
·         Human Evolutionary Biology
·         Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
·         Additional Departments Forthcoming

Candidates for the Fellowship will apply for admission to one of these
Harvard University PhD Programs to be considered eligible for this
full funding opportunity through the Max Planck-Harvard collaboration.
Applicants must specify their interest in the MHAAM Fellowship Program
at the top of the application, and must additionally send a copy of the
application to sohpchair@fas.harvard.edu, or via mail to:

Lisa Ransom Lubarr
Harvard University
Robinson Hall M-03
35 Quincy Street
Cambridge, MA  02138

Inquiries can be sent to: sohpchair@fas.harvard.edu

"Lubarr, Lisa R." <llubarr@fas.harvard.edu>

