--- Eighth International Hole-Nesting Birds Conference ---
The Centre for Biodiversity Dynamics (CBD) at the Norwegian University
of Science and Technology (NTNU) is pleased to announce that the Eighth
International Hole-Nesting Birds Conference will be held from October 30
to November 2, 2017 in Trondheim, Norway. The conference aims to bring
together leading academic scientists, researchers, research scholars and
citizen scientists to exchange and share their experiences in research
involving all aspects of hole-nesting birds.

The scientific program will consist of eight sessions for keynote
speakers and contributed speakers to present their latest research
results, ideas and challenges within the fields of population dynamics,
behaviour, physiology, life-history strategies, speciation, genetics,
dispersal and movement, and climate change.

In addition, there will be poster session, and a discussion session
that will allow attendees to discuss research plans and challenges in
parallel group sessions. A central focus will be to improve communication
and interactions between different groups working on hole-nesting birds
across Europe.

--- Deadlines ---
Deadline for registration and submission of abstracts for talks and
posters is September 25, 2017. The CBD will offer some grants that
provide financial support for some of those who may wish to attend the
conference. Those with financial need for travel and/or accommodation
may apply at the registration.

--- Genomics satellite meeting ---
A satellite meeting on hole-nesting birds genomics will be held on Friday
3 November (from 9:00 to ca. 15:00). The satellite meeting will take
place at NTNU Gløshaugen campus (ca. 500 m northeast of the conference
venue), and will consist of short presentations and discussions on topics
suggested by the participants. Registration and suggestion of topics
can be done by sending an e-mail to Alina Niskanen (alinan@ntnu.no),
who will also answer any questions related to the satellite meeting. The
satellite meeting is free of charge.

--- Website and social media ---
For more information, please visit the conference website:
https://www.ntnu.edu/hnb-conference
Follow us on Twitter: https://twitter.com/HNBirds2017
And join the Facebook event: Eighth International Hole-Nesting Birds
Conference 2017 <https://t.co/fOtwFKjghW>

We are looking forward to seeing you all at the conference!

The Eighth International Hole-Nesting Birds Conference organizing committee:
Bernt-Erik Sæther
Marcel E. Visser
Ben C. Sheldon
Stefan J.G. Vriend

stefan.vriend@ntnu.no

