Dear friends,

Session proposals for Marine Evolution 2018
(http://cemeb.science.gu.se/activities/marine-evolution-2018), organized
by the Linnaeus Centre of Marine Evolutionary Biology, which will take
place the 15th through 17th of May 2018 in Strömstad on the West Coast
of Sweden, can now be submitted. Deadline for session proposals is
October 1st.

Marine Evolution 2018 invites session proposals broadly within the
field of Marine Evolutionary Biology. Plenary presentations by six
renowned speakers have been confirmed, and are listed on the conference
website. Session topics can be developed in relation to these, or in
any other relevant discipline within Marine Evolutionary Biology.

The conference will take place over three days in the beautiful
Bohuslän region, listed as one of the "ten last great wildernesses
in the world" by CNN. It is situated on the Swedish West Coast,
strategically located between major international airports in Oslo, Norway
and Gothenburg, Sweden. It will host nine sessions, as well as excursion
events, evening performances and time for discussions and relaxation. The
venue is the Strömstad Spa (http://stromstadspa.se/english), a modern
conference infrastructure with pool and gym facilities. The conference
fee will be 3600 SEK (1600 SEK for PhD students), excl. VAT.

Session proposals should include: A short but descriptive title of the
topic, a list of chairs of the session with contact information, a brief
abstract (max 200 words), and a tentative list of proposed speakers to
invite.  Session chairs are expected to actively invite peers to register
and submit abstracts for presentations. Once registration opens (November
1st 2017) participants will suggest which session they would like to fit
into, and these registrations will be forwarded to the session chairs
for consideration. Session chairs are free to organize sessions in the
manner they see fit, with possibilities for keynote talks, speed talks,
oral presentations of posters, etc. All session chairs will have the
opportunity to designate poster presentations to applicants who cannot be
fitted into the oral presentation timeframe. Session chairs are also free
to organize publication of presented materials in scientific journals,
if deemed of interest by the participants. Sessions will be run three in
parallel each day, from 11:00 - 14:45 with a 75-minute break for lunch.

Session proposals are due on October 1st, 2017,
and should be submitted through the web portal at
(http://cemeb.science.gu.se/activities/marine-evolution-2018/sessions).

If you have questions about the scientific program, including content
questions relative to the sessions, or any questions regarding logistics,
please contact the organizing committee at
infomare@marine.gu.se.

Sincerely,
the Marine Evolution 2018 Organizing Committee
	Kerstin Johannesson
	Anders Blomberg
	Pierre De Wit
	Eva Marie Rödström
	Samuel Perini
 

Pierre de Wit <pierre.de_wit@marine.gu.se>

