Call for Abstracts Conference
Human Enhancement and Evolution
Scientific, Technological, Policy & ELS Considerations
Lisbon
13- 14th December 2017
Host Institution: Centre for Philosophy of Science of the University of
Lisbon (CFCUL) [http://cfcul.fc.ul.pt/]

The Conference will have two parts:

1.       Evolution and the Sciences and Technologies of Human Enhancement

Organismal dynamics are such that organisms incontrovertibly affect the
very evolutionary pressures that shape them, even if only indirectly. But
seemingly, amongst all organisms and perhaps owing to their cognitive
evolution, humans became exceptionally fine controllers of both theirs and
other organisms' evolutionary processes. In virtue of the sciences and
technologies of human enhancement, more effective exertion of control over
evolution is nowadays becoming evident, and this is shown among others
by the rise of new technics such as genetic editing tools. However, human
enhancement and its broad evolutionary effects are still understudied.

We invite contributions to the effort of understanding the plethora of
ways in which evolution relates to human enhancement. As such, topics
of interest may include, but are not limited to:

  *   The human evolutionary possibilities: predictive models,
      challenges and limitations;
  *   Directed evolution, both gene driven (e.g. genetic engineering,
      induced mutagenesis, and reprogenetics) or non-germline based;
  *   Evolutionary trade-offs of assisted modes of human reproduction,
      immunity engineering, medical and health technologies, and of
      longevity enhancements (interferences in senescence and lifespan),
      their demographics and population dynamics;
  *   Natural and artificially induced reticulate evolution (e.g. human-non-
      human transgenesis);
  *   Present & future human evolution (e.g. k-selection and
      speciation);
  *   The impact of technological evolution qua niche construction on
      human evolution and ecology (e.g. geoengineering; non-Earth-
      bounded evolution);
  *   Non-carbon-based evolution (including AIs of all kinds & alien);
  *   The evolution of 4E and scaffolded cognition;
  *   The relation between fitness and human enhancement (e.g. does
      human enhancement enhance fitness?);
  *   Working definitions of "human enhancement" for
      Evolutionary Theories;
  *   Is there actual control over evolution? How could we understand it?
  *   Human evolution in relation to Technology evolution (e.g. human-
      machine interfaces);

Keynote Speaker(s): Professor John Harris; TBA. Invited Speaker(s): TBA.

Local Organizing Committee: João Pinheiro [CFCUL]; Dr. Alexander Gerner
[CFCUL]

2.       Policy & ELSA of Genome Editing and Human Enhancement

Genome editing is a technology with the potential to promote and enhance
health, and understand disease. However, as many other disruptive advances
in science, it also brings challenges at an ethical, legal, social,
and political level, particularly regarding the treatment of hereditary
diseases and the integrity of the human germline. The possibilities
of genome-editing and its limits and consequences, specifically to
therapeutic applications and targeted interventions in ecosystems are
being broadly discussed by many. It will be important to contribute to
the debate in a critical and transparent way with the participation of
scientists, society and policy-makers. This will provide a platform to
better assess the benefits and potential risks of the technology to help
support the development of sound policies in the future.

We invite reflections upon the following themes (including but not
limited to):

Ethical, legal, political and social challenges associated with
genome-editing;

  *   Genetic editing: evolution of technology and medicine and its
      implications for human health, and the natural environment;
  *   Socio-ethical and policy-related questions about the acceptability
      of germline modification;
  *   Challenges on defining "Genetic identity", parenthood and
      respective responsibilities: limits and consequences;
  *   "Human enhancement" potential of genetic editing: Implications
      and scientific- technological feasibility thereof;
  *   Responses to the challenge of established norms.

Keynote Speaker(s): Professor Bartha Maria Knoppers; TBA.

Invited Speakers: Professor Alexandre Quintanilha; TBA.

Local Organizing Committee: Dr. Alexander Gerner [CFCUL]; Dr. Mara Almeida
[CFCUL]

Scientific Committee: Professor Philip Kitcher; Professor Gregory Stock;
Professor Susan Kelly; Professor Kevin M. Esvelt; Professor Rita Zilhão;
Dr. Nathalie Gontier; Professor Maria Fernanda Palma.

Abstract submission

For your submission please make sure to provide two separate documents:
(1) Information Document with all  authors' names and affiliations,
a working address for  the corresponding author, and respective e-mail
address; (2) Anonymized Document with a title and an abstract of 500
words max. (excluding bibliographical references). Both documents should
be sent to philhumtech@gmail.com until the 20th of October under the
heading of "Submission to Conference Human Enhancement and Evolution".

The announcement of the results is set to the 31st October. The
selected abstracts will be invited for a 20mins presentation.
Authors of selected abstracts to the 1st part of the conference
will later be invited to contribute to a peer reviewed volume in the
Springer Book Series Interdisciplinary Evolution Research on the topic
of Evolution and the Sciences and Technologies of Human Enhancement
[http://www.springer.com/series/13109].  The contributors to the
2nd part of the conference will also be considered for publication.
Registration and attendance are free of charge.

Conference dinner is scheduled for the 14th December in Lisbon.

The conference will be held in English at the Faculty of Sciences of
the University of Lisbon, Portugal.

Please feel free to contact the organizers in case
you have any doubts or use the general e-mail address:
philhumtech@gmail.com.

Kind regards from Lisbon, The organizing committee,

Dr. Alexander Gerner [amgerner@fc.ul.pt]
Dr. Mara Almeida [msalmeida@fc.ul.pt]

João Pinheiro <joaopinheiro@hotmail.com>

