Dear colleagues,

My co-organizer, Joanna "Jo" Wolfe, and I would like to invite you to
present your research in the session "Molecular Insights: The Genomic
Revolution in Crustacean Biology" at the upcoming International Crustacean
Congress IX to be held May 22-25th 2018 in Washington DC.  This conference
is hosted by the Smithsonian Institution and Renaissance Hotel. We hope
this session will provide a platform to share and discuss studies
incorporating crustacean genetics and/or genomics. We encourage submissions
that cover any crustacean taxa and we are particularly interested in
phylogenetics/omics, transcriptomics, gene expression studies, tree of life
studies, and population genomics.  Graduate Students, Postdoctoral Scholars
and Professors (at all levels) are encouraged to participate!

If you are interested in participating please reach out to Heather
Bracken-Grissom at hbracken@fiu.edu as we expect the session spots to fill
quickly.

The deadline for abstract submissions is *March 1st 2018.*

More information on the conference can be found here detailing registration
and abstract due dates and logistics:
http://www.birenheide.com/ICC2018/index.php

*Session details*:

*Molecular Insights: The Genomic Revolution in Crustacean Biology *

Co-Coordinators:

Heather Bracken-Grissom, Florida International University, hbracken@fiu.edu

Joanna Wolfe, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, jowolfe@mit.edu

The field of crustacean genetics has undergone an exciting revolution in
recent years. The advancement of sequencing technologies and methods has
transformed the way carcinologists ask questions and collect data,
especially for non-model organisms that lack genomic references.  For
several groups within Crustacea, this "genomic revolution" is still in its
infancy.  The potential to capitalize on recent technology is great, and
findings from these studies will lead to unprecedented insights into the
fields of evolutionary biology and molecular ecology.

For this session, we would like to invite researchers working in the field
of crustacean genetics/genomics.  We welcome contributions from
phylogenetics/omics, population genomics, transcriptomics, among others.
In addition to the abovementioned, theoretical and methodological talks
will be considered.

We hope to highlight a diverse group of organisms that span various fields
of crustacean biology.  Please indicate that you would like to be included
in the "Molecular Insights" session.

We do not plan to publish a special issue.

We do not plan to apply for funding to recruit specific speakers.

The session will accept as many talk proposals as appropriate based on
submitted abstracts.

We look forward to seeing you in DC!

Kind regards,

Heather Bracken-Grissom and Jo Wolfe

-- 
Heather Bracken-Grissom, PhD
Assistant Professor
Dept. of Biological Sciences
Florida International University-Biscayne Bay Campus
3000 NE 151 Street, MSB-353
North Miami, Florida 33181, USA
305 919-4190 (Phone)  305 919-4030 (Fax)

*CRUSTOMICS: Crustacean Genomics and Systematics Lab*
*http://www.brackengrissomlab.com/
heather.brackengrissom@fiu.edu www.fiu.edu/~marine

Heather Bracken-Grissom <heather.bracken@gmail.com>

