Course: Assembly and Annotation of genomes

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course20/

12-16 February 2018, Berlin (Germany)

Instructor: Dr. Thomas D. Otto (University of Glasgow,
UK; https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t28/)
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t28/

Overview

This course will introduce biologists and bioinformaticians to the
concepts of de novo assembly and annotation. Different technologies,
from Illumina, PacBio, Oxford Nanopoor and maybe 10X will be used
mixed with different approaches like correction, HiC scaffolding to
generate good draft assemblies. Particular attention will be given to
the quality control of the assemblies and to the understanding how
errors occur. Further, annotation tools using RNA-Seq data will be
introduced. An outlook of potential analysis is given. In the end of
the course the students should be able to understand what is needed to
generate a good annotated genome.

Targeted Audience & Assumed Background

The course is aimed at researchers interested in learning more about
genome assembly and annotation. It will include information useful for
both the beginner and the more advanced user. We will start by introducing
general concepts and then continue to step-by-step describe all major
components of a genome assembly and annotation workflow, from raw data
all the way to a final assembled and annotated genome. There will be a
mix of lectures and hands-on practical exercises using command line Linux.

Attendees should have a background in biology. We will dedicate one
session to some basic and advanced Linux concepts. Attendees should
have also some familiarity with genomic data such as that arising from
NGS sequencers.

Session content

Monday 12th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - "get it starting"

Session 1: Introduction (morning)

In this session I will kick off with an introduction lecture about genome
assembly and annotation - the past, the present and the future. I will use
this introduction to motivate the five-day course. Next, I will explain
the use of the virtual machine (VM), and the use of cloud computing. This
is followed by short introduction to Linux (although I would prefer if
student know a bit of Linux). Through the morning we will kick off our
first assembly and put it through an annotation tool (Companion).

Session 2: Visualization (half afternoon)

During this afternoon, we are going to visualize the assembled and
annotation genome from this morning in Artemis. The aim is to use the
viewer to inspect the annotation, correct annotation and write out
files. Next, we are going to perform a comparative exercise, (comparing
the genome from the morning with a close reference) to understand the
concept of syntheny, breakpoint or errors.

Session 3: Mapping

 In this module, I will teach the basics of read mapping. We will map
 reads with bwa mem onto a reference and will examine duplications
 and errors through not proper mapped read pairs. This is important to
 exanimate the correctness of assemblies and will be used later the week.

Tuesday 13th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 -  "learn it the old way"

Session 4: De Brujin graph and PAGIT

This module is dedicated to short read assembly. Although it might be
superseded due to long reads, understanding the concept of short reads
and De Brujin graph is crucial. After a seminar about this subject, we
will assemble the same genome as before, but this time with Illumina:
de novo assembly with velvet, contig ordering, error correction. Through
comparative genomics we are going to look at errors in the assembly,
and how they could be found with remapping short reads, and also split
long reads. Last, we are going to compare the assembly to the assembly
from Monday. This session will go into the afternoon of Tuesday.

Session 5: RNA-Seq

In this session, we will analysis the transcriptome of the sample we
assembled so far, motivated through a little talk. In the exercise, we
will map RNA-Seq reads, (short and long reads) understanding first the
basics of RNA-Seq, but then will use the reads to correct gene models. We
will discuss the concept of alternative splicing.

 Finally, we will annotate our assembly with Augustus, using the mapped
 RNA-Seq data and some manually corrected genes.

Wednesday 14th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - "do it yourself"

Session 6: Large genome assembly

First we are going to kick off an assembly of a larger genome, and let
it run in the cloud over the day and the night. It will be important
during the day to check if the assembly is still running.

Session 7: Group Taks I

Group task I: You will get a set of reads (from a random technology)
and need to generate a draft genome assembly. Due to time restriction,
the reads will be from a bacterial genome and you need to

*         Assemble the genome
*         Check the assembly
*        Annotate the genome

This task will be done in groups of 2-3 students. During the day,
I will motivate some of the new tools, like bacterial annotation,
circularization etc. through little talks.

Thursday 15 th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - "apply your knowledge
to real world example"

Session 8: Group Taks I continued

First each group will present the results of the group task, quality
of the assembly, amount of annotated genes, and give an outlook what
analysis they would do next and why.

Session 9: Large genome assembly continued

For the rest of the morning, we are going to analyse the larger genome
assembly started Wednesday morning. How did it come along? How big is
it? What is it? How much compute did it take?

Session 10: Group Task II

Group task 2, pick 2 projects: During the next 24h, each group will work
on two different projects. Those range from: Assembly of genomes, size
from 1-40MB, virus assembly, using HiC data for the assembly, comparing
different sequencing technologies, comparing different assembly tools,
evaluate the quality of assemblies, annotate a large genome etc. Each
group will pick 2 projects and needs to manage the amount of time (what
and when to set off running, what will you run over night?). Important,
students could also analyse their own data as a project, if they can
convince the other group members that their project is interesting.

 These project simulates more "real life" examples as compared to
 the data from the exercises the rather raw reads are in the short read
 archives, some might be of bad quality, other are contaminated, etc.

Friday 16 th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 11: Group Task II continued

We are continuing with the group task.

Session 12: Group Task II presentation

In this session, each group will present the results of their work. Each
member of the groups will have to present parts of the projects. This
is followed by a general discussion about the group tasks, and the course.

Available packages :

1) Course-only: includes course material and refreshments (480 euros;
   VAT incl.)

2) All-inclusive: includes course material, refreshments, meals
   (breakfast, lunch and dinner), accommodation (795 euros; VAT incl.)

Registration deadline: 12th January, 2018.

The full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

