Update on discussion meeting:  Conservation of Adaptive Potential and
Functional Diversity

14-15 September 2017, Durham University, UK

Registration open through to the date of the meeting, or until capacity
reached.  https://www.dur.ac.uk/conference.booking/details/?id=761

Abstract registration for talks closed, but now extended for Posters to 1
September, 2017 Please send poster abstracts to: cap.meeting@durham.ac.uk

Invited speaker presentations:

Chris Jiggins (Cambridge, UK):  The origins of diversity in Heliconius
wing patterns: Re-use of ancient variants and its implications for
conservation.

Paul Hohenlohe (Idaho, USA): Evaluating the potential for a genetic
marker panel of susceptibility to Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease.

Victor Soria-Carrasco (Sheffield, UK):  Genome-wide heterozygosity and
fitness in a field experiment with stick-insects.

Simone Sommer (Ulm, Germany): Does low diversity influence MHC immune
gene expression level in endangered wild cheetahs?

Oscar Gaggiotti (St. Andrews, UK):  Understanding associations between
species and genetic diversity requires the use of consistent measures
of biodiversity across levels of organisation.

Barbara Mable (Glasgow, UK): Changing environments and genetic variation:
does inbreeding compromise short-term adaptive potential?

Rasmus Nielsen (Berkeley, USA): Genetic rescue from inbreeding depression
and its evolutionary limits.

Chris Funk (Colorado, USA): Incorporating information on adaptation
into conservation policy: integrating genomics into Endangered Species
Act decisions.

Bob Wayne (Los Angeles, USA): Measuring adaptive and deleterious variation
in threatened populations and its importance for conservation management.

Rob Fleischer (Smithsonian, USA): Genomic and transcriptomic assessments
of host response to invasive pathogens.

Mike Bruford (Cardiff, UK): Population Transcriptomics, demographic
history and high altitude adaptation in a predatory bird.

Violeta Fuentes (EMBL-EBI, UK): The International Mouse Phenotyping
Consortium (IMPC): a functional catalogue of the mammalian genome that
informs conservation.

There will also be a series of shorter talks chosen from among the
submitted abstracts and a poster session.

Meeting sponsored by Springer-Nature and the Genetics Society.

"HOELZEL, RUS A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk>

