GENOMICS AND BIOINFORMATICS WORKSHOP
ORNITHOLOGICAL CONGRESS OF THE AMERICAS - PUERTO IGUAZU, ARGENTINA,
AUGUST 6-8 2017
http://www.afonet.org/2017iguazu/site/scientific-program/

Organizers: Scott V. Edwards, Timothy Sackton, Allison Shultz and
Gustavo Bravo, (Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University, US),
Cecilia Kopuchian, (CECOAL-CONICET, Argentina)

Dates: 6-8 August (3 days)

Registration fee: Free. This workshop is supported by the "Sistema
Nacional de Datos Genomicos" from Argentina (MINCYT). There are some
travel grants (for flights within Argentina) for attendees of this
workshop. To register, send an email before 12 of July to
ckopuchian@gmail.com with your name, DNI/Passport number and your
position. Travel grant applicants should also send a reduced CV and a
short letter of interest in this workshop and why is important for your
research or work.

Summary of objectives: Each student should bring his own laptop for
practical classes. The objective of this workshop is for students to
learn about the different genomic tools available to apply to their own
research projects. The course will be taught in English and Spanish.

Requirements: Participants are strongly recommended to bring a laptop,
as large sections of the workshop will be hands on. Linux and macs
strongly preferred. Some previous experience with R or the linux
command line would be helpful, but not required. We will provide
software and example datasets; participants should download and install
everything prior to the workshop. Links will be provided two weeks
prior to the workshop.

Syllabus of topics to be covered: Introduction to genomic methods and
marker types. Marker types and what can be done with them: RAD-seq,
ultraconserved elements (UCEs), and whole-genome methods. Overview of
tools for genomic analysis. Introduction to the UNIX command line.
RAD-seq. Overview of RAD techniques. Analysis approaches: Reference
genome based, Non-reference based, Quality checks on SNP data. Using
command line tools to understand variant call files:Quality checks,
Filtering. Population genetics in R. Introduction to R. Tools for
analysis of SNP data (adagenet). Principal component analysis and
related methods in R. Sequence-capture. Introduction to sequence
capture methods and marker types. Using the PHYLUCE pipeline for UCE
data. Preprocessing and quality checks. Building alignments. Building
phylogenies with species tree methods. Whole-genome approaches.
Introduction to whole genome methods: Genome assembly, Transcriptome
assembly. Population resequencing: Mapping, filtering and SNP calling.
Using genomic data. Population genomics with ANGSD and NGSTools.
Argentinean genomic research and resources

Valentina Ferretti, PhD
IEGEBA-CONICET
Departamento de EcologÃa, Genetica y Evolucion
Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales
Universidad de Buenos Aires
Pabellon 2 - Ciudad Universitaria
Av. Int. Guiraldes 2160, C1428EGA CABA
"Ever tried. Ever failed. No matter. Try again. Fail again. Fail
better."
~Samuel Beckett

Valentina Ferretti <ferrettivale@gmail.com>

