Dear colleagues,

a reminder about the upcoming Experimental Evolution course in Vienna,
Austria:

The Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics is now accepting
applications for the course "Experimental evolution: From theory to
practice" at the University of Veterinary Medicine in Vienna, November
6-10, 2017.

Experimental evolution is extensively used to address questions of
evolutionary biology by exposing evolving populations to different
environmental conditions. It offers the opportunity to replicate
experiments and test for convergent outcomes. With the recent drop in
DNA sequencing cost and the advance of sequencing technologies, the
combination of experimental evolution with next generation sequencing
of pools of individuals (Evolve & Resequence) has become a
state-of-the-art method to link phenotypic responses to genetic
changes. Although the availability of replicated time series data is
one key advantage of E&R, the analysis of such data sets is still in
its infancy. This course will introduce the participants to several
new approaches for the analysis of genomic time series data covering
the latest software tools as well as required statistical and
computational skills.

The course is targeted towards researchers interested in experimental
evolution combined with NGS and will cover the design of experimental
evolution studies as well as the analysis of Pool-Seq time series
data.

The course aims to introduce participants to:

State-of-the-art software packages
Modeling of neutral data
Identifying selected regions
Comparison of n-point analysis with time series data
Inferring linkage structure of Pool-Seq data
Estimating selection coefficients
Calling transposable elements in time series data
Inferring selection in transcriptomics data

Morning lectures by internationally renowned faculty will be followed
by computer practicals on the analysis of experimental evolution data
in the afternoon.

Faculty:

Jeffrey E. Barrick (The University of Texas at Austin, US)
Anthony M. Dean (University of Minnesota, US)
Tadeusz J. Kawecki (University of Lausanne, CH)
Christian Schlötterer (Vetmeduni Vienna, A)
Marina Telonis-Scott (Monash University, AUS)
Olivier Tenaillon (French Institute for Medical Research, FR)
Henrique Teotonio (IBENS, FR)

The course is free but will be restricted to a maximum of 15
participants for the practical sessions (hands on computer lab).
Additional seats will be available for attending the lectures, only.
Students and researchers are invited to apply by submitting a single
.pdf file containing 1) a short CV, 2) a motivation letter and a
statement of computer skills to popgen.vienna@gmail.com by August 15,
2017. Confidence in working with Unix command line as well as in R, is
strongly recommended for the practicals. Participants are expected to
arrange their own accommodation.

Further information and updates available at
http://www.popgen-vienna.at/training/experimental-evolution-2017.html

-- 
Dr. Julia Hosp
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics
Coordinator
www.popgen-vienna.at
https://twitter.com/PopGenViennaPhD

c/o Institut für Populationsgenetik
Veterinärmedizinische Universität Wien (Vetmeduni Vienna)
Veterinärplatz 1, 1210 Wien

T  +43 1 25077 4338
F +43 1 25077 4390

http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/
https://twitter.com/PopGenVienna

Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at

