Registration and abstract submission is underway
for the 2017 meeting on Mobile Genetic Elements:
https://mbl-web.ungerboeck.com/wri/wri_p1_display.aspx?oc=3D10&cc=3DMOBILEDNA

Abstract submission deadlines: August 1 for talk and fellowship
consideration; August 12 for poster presentations.

The 2017 Meeting "Mobile Genetic Elements" in Woods Hole, MA, USA will
take place from Thursday, August 31 to Saturday, September 2 at the Marine
Biological Laboratory (MBL). The meeting will bring together experimental
and computational scientists seeking to narrow the existing gap between
the fast-paced discovery of transposable elements (TEs) in silico,
stimulated by exponential growth of comparative evolutionary genomic
and metagenomics studies, and a limited number of experimental models
amenable to in vitro and in vivo studies of structural, mechanistic,
and regulatory properties of TEs and their impact on their prokaryotic
and eukaryotic hosts. Special emphasis will be placed on the evolutionary
aspects of TE-host interactions.

The meeting continues the series of bi-annual regional meetings held
since 2007 in Woods Hole and in Cold Spring Harbor, and now covers a
broader swath of the continent, following the affiliation between the
MBL and the University of Chicago. Participants from any interested US
and international labs are welcome. Half of the talks will be selected
from submitted abstracts. We especially encourage abstract submissions
from young scientists at the graduate, postdoctoral, and early-stage
investigator levels. Limited financial support towards registration costs
will be made available to selected presenters, as well as to members of
under-represented minority groups. To qualify for reduced registration,
please provide a brief justification to either of the organizers by
e-mail upon abstract submission.

We look forward to welcoming you on Cape Cod!

Meeting organizers:
Bill Reznikoff breznikoff@mbl.edu
Phoebe Rice price@uchicago.edu
Irina Arkhipova iarkhipova@mbl.edu

"iarkhipova@mbl.edu" <iarkhipova@mbl.edu>

