Dear Colleagues,

We are pleased to announce the 3rd Probabilistic Modeling in Genomics
Conference (ProbGen17), that will be held at Aarhus University, Denmark,
from 18-20 Sept 2017.

The conference will cover probabilistic models, algorithms, and
statistical methods across a broad range of applications in genetics and
genomics. We invite abstract submissions on a range of topics including
Population Genetics, Functional Genomics, Systems and Structural Biology,
Methods for Genome-wide Association Studies, Causal inference in genetic
studies, Assembly and Variant Identification, Phylogenetics, Natural
Selection and Quantitative Genetics.

Alongside invited speakers, oral presentations will be selected from
submitted abstracts. We particularly encourage abstract submissions
from junior investigators, including postdoctoral fellows and graduate
students.

Probgen was held previously in Cold Spring Harbor (2015), and Oxford
(2016). It evolved from the success of previous similarly-themed workshops
held at the HHMI Janelia Farm Research Campus (2013) and Merton College,
Oxford (2014).

The conference talks and poster sessions will be held at the new Moesgaard
Museum for archaeology and ethnography (MOMU) situated just 5 km out
of Aarhus. Aarhus is most easily accessible from either Aarhus (AAR)
or Billund (BLL) Airport that serves most major European cities.

The meeting will begin with an informal mixer on the evening of Sunday
17 September 2017 at Hotel Comwell [http://www.comwellaarhus.dk/] in
central Aarhus. Talks will take place from Monday 18 September until
lunchtime on Wednesday 20 September.

Registration will open soon. We have provisional capacity for ~200
participants; due to space limitations, registration will proceed on a
first-come-first-served basis.

Important deadline: The early bird registration and abstract submission
deadline is June 10th, 2017.

The conference venue webpage: www.moesgaardmuseum.dk/en/ The conference
webpage can be found at http://conferences.au.dk/probgen17/

Please send enquiries to probgen17@birc.au.dk

We would appreciate if you could circulate this announcement to your
local colleagues and collaborators.

The organizers:
Ida Moltke, University of Copenhagen
Thomas Mailund, Aarhus University
Thomas Bataillon, Aarhus University
Mikkel H. Schierup, Aarhus University

Thomas Bataillon <tbata@birc.au.dk>

