Tocelebrate the 150th Anniversary of the first publication of The American
Naturalist, there will be a special symposium at the stand-alone meeting
of the American Society of Naturalists (January 5 - 9, 2018, Asilomar CA,
USA). The symposium is titled "On the shoulders of giants: the future
of The American Naturalist". The goal of the symposium will be to show
how major advances published in the journal's history have laid the
foundation for exciting new directions in evolutionary ecology and related
fields. There will be time for six 30-minute talks, each highlighting a
different concept from a classic American Naturalist paper, and where
those ideas are headed next. We want the talks to place the original
paper into its historic context, trace the subsequent development of the
idea, and (crucially) show how the classic ideas connect to today's
cutting-edge research.  Weare requesting proposals for talks. Each
proposal should be no more than 250 words. Proposals should:

1)  Identify what influential paper(s) from The American Naturalist's
past will be the starting point of the talk.

2)  Briefly explain how that past paper influenced the direction of the
field generally and the speaker's career in particular.

3)  Indicate how the speaker is using / developing / changing that classic
paper's ideas in their own current and future work.  Inaddition to
the 250 word limit, one figure and up to 5 references are allowed.

Talkproposals should be sent to Daniel Bolnick
(danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu) by May 1. We expect to notify chosen
speakers by June 1.

Weencourage junior researchers (post-docs, early-career faculty) to apply,
and individuals from often under-represented groups.

Thesociety does not have the funds to pay for travel or lodging expenses
of the chosen speakers. But in exceptional circumstances ASM may consider
appeals to waive conference registration fees for junior presenters who
lack other means to cover conference costs.

Inaddition to this symposium, the American Society of Naturalists
is separately seeking proposals for topics and speakers for two other
organized symposia at the 2018 Asilomar meeting (contact Emilie Snell-Rood
for details, emilies@umn.edu).

Dr.Daniel I. Bolnick

Professor
Departmentof Integrative Biology
Chair,Graduate Program in Ecology Evolution and Behavior
OneUniversity Station C0990
Universityof Texas at Austin
Austin,TX 78712

512-471-2824
fax512-471-3878
danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu

Labwebsite: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com

danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu

