The American Society of Naturalists

Call for Symposia

ASN meeting at Asilomar, California

5-9 Jan 2018

The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium proposals for their
stand-alone meeting, to be held at Asilomar in Monterey, California 5-9
January 2018. Two symposia will be chosen for this meeting, to run on
separate days, in addition to a special symposium celebrating the 150th
anniversary of the first publication of the American Naturalist. Proposals
for the special anniversary symposium are being solicited separately.

Symposium topics should support the Society's goal to advance the
conceptual unification of the biological sciences and further knowledge in
evolution, ecology, behavior and organismal biology. Proposals are
encouraged on topics that are synthetic, interdisciplinary or that address
important emerging issues in evolution, ecology and behavior.

Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description of the symposium
topic (one page); (3) a tentative list of speakers, including institutional
affiliations; (4) a justification for the symposium explaining why the
topic and speakers are appropriate for an ASN meeting, keeping in mind the
broader goals of the society (
http://www.amnat.org/about/about-the-society.html); and (5) a statement
that all proposed invited speakers have agreed to participate. Organizers
should plan the symposia to run from approximately 1:30-5:30, and can
divide this time amongst speakers as they wish, reserving time for a coffee
break.

Proposals must be submitted by midnight Eastern Standard Time on March 31,
2017 by email (emilies@umn.edu) as a single pdf attachment, under subject
heading: ASN Asilomar Symposium Proposal. Proposals that include women,
young investigators and individuals from underrepresented groups are
especially encouraged.

Please note that the society does not have the funds to pay for travel or
lodging expenses of the chosen speakers. But, in exceptional circumstances
we may consider requests to waive conference registration costs for junior
participants in symposia. Regardless, there may be opportunities to seek
external symposium funding.

The Society's selection committee will evaluate proposals based on the
likelihood of attracting a substantial audience, the significance and
timeliness of the topic, and on it being substantively different from
recent symposia hosted by the Society. All applicants will be notified of
the decision by late April 2017.

Emilie Snell-Rood

ASN Symposium Committee Chair

Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior

University of Minnesota

emilies@umn.edu

