PopBio2017 - 30th Conference of the Plant Population Biology Section of
the Ecological Society of Germany, Austria and Switzerland (GfÃ-)

"Population Biology in a Changing World"
http://www.popbio2017.de/

We are very happy to invite you to the 30th PopBio conference, which
will be held in Halle/Saale, Germany, from 18th to 20th May 2017.

PopBio 2017 will be hosted by the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental
Research (UFZ), the Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, and the
German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv).

Online registration and abstract submission is open now at:
http://www.popbio2017.de/registration.html
*** Deadline for abstract submission 31 March, 2017 ***
PopBio is the annual international meeting for people working in the
field of plant population biology and ecology. This years motto is
"Population Biology in a Changing World". We invite contributions
in the subfields:
-       Plant demography
-       Population and evolutionary genetics
-       Pollination ecology
-       Mechanisms of biological invasions
-       Plant-pathogen and plant-herbivore interactions
-       Free topics

We expect that the conference will define the state of the art in plant
population ecology, set the research agenda for the next years and give
insights into novel tools to empower in particular young scientists to
analyse population-ecological data.

We will have two and a half days of exciting presentations. An informal
conference dinner will be offered on Friday. On Saturday afternoon, you
can join the excursion to the Global Change Experimental Facility,
GCEF, or to continental dry grasslands with unique flora on porphyry
outcrops near Halle.

Keynotes:
- Roberto Salguero-Gomez, Department of animal and plant sciences,
  University of Sheffield, UK "Life history currencies shape plant
  population performance worldwide"
- Erin Mordecai, Department of Biology, Stanford University, USA "Impact
  of pathogens on plant species diversity in grassland communities"
- Jeff Ollerton, Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology, University of
  Northampton, UK "The macroecology of wind and animal pollination"
- Steve Keller, Department of Plant Biology, University of Vermont, USA
  "Climate adaptation past, present, and future: new insights from
  combining genomics and spatial modeling in forest trees"
- Jane Catford, Centre for Biological Sciences, University of
  Southampton, UK "Using community ecology to understand invasive
  species and their impacts"

Timeline:
-    Deadline for abstract submission 31 March, 2017 (www.popbio2017.de)
-    Notification of abstract acceptance after 17 April, 2014
-    Deadline for registration: 24 April, 2014
-    Registration fees rise by 50 euro after 2 May, 2017

Special feature in Basic and Applied Ecology, BAAE:
Presenters at PopBio2017 are invited to contribute to a special issue
of Basic and Applied Ecology, the Journal of the Ecological Society of
Germany, Austria and Switzerland (GFÃ-) which will be edited by Susanne
Lachmuth, Stefan Michalski and Niek Scheepens.

The PopBio 2017 organization committee:
Harald Auge, Helge Bruehlheide, Walter Durka, Isabell Hensen, Tiffany
Knight, Susanne Lachmuth, Stefan Michalski

Conference secretary:
Dr. Hildegard Feldmann
F&U confirm, Permoserstr. 15, 04318 Leipzig, Germany

Fon: +49 341 235 2264
Fax: +49 341 235 2782
Email: popbio2017@fu-confirm.de

Susanne Lachmuth <susanne.lachmuth@botanik.uni-halle.de>

