SYMPOSIA ANNOUNCEMENT
 50th Annual Meeting, Western Society of Malacologists, Los Angeles,
 California
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/western-society-of-malacologists-50th-annual-meeting-tickets-28744283927

Molluscs and Climate Change
20 June 2017
What are the effects of climate change on molluscs and the evidence
molluscs give us regarding climate change? Appropriate topics for
presentations include (but are not limited to) anthropogenic and
naturally-caused changes, range changes or contractions because of
long term ocean temperature changes or El Niño/La Niña conditions,
influence of ocean acidification, global or local extinctions, invasions
or introductions, and evidence from fossil/subfossil and indigenous
midden sites.

Current Research in Fossil Mollusca
21 June 2017
The rich fossil record of molluscs lends itself to studies and
interpretation of biostratigraphy, systematics, evolution, and
paleoecology. We invite presentations concerning any fossil molluscan taxa
with a local, regional, or worldwide focus. We also invite presentations
about the work of museums in cataloging and preserving fossil molluscs.

Terrestrial Molluscs
22 June 2017
Terrestrial snails and slugs comprise nearly one third of known molluscs
at estimates of 40,000 species. Much of this fauna, especially in Western
North America, is poorly documented and/or under-studied. This symposium
will highlight native and introduced land snails and slugs and current
research that is elucidating aspects of their morphology, behavior,
distribution, evolution, and conservation.

General Session
20, 21, 22 June 2017
Presentations concerning almost any aspect of molluscan biology,
archeology, and anthropology are welcome.

We hope to see you in Los Angeles!

Abstracts: The closing date for abstracts is 14 April, 2017. Please
submit abstracts (with length limited to 350 words including title and
authors) in Times New Roman, 12 pt. as a .doc .or docx as an email with
the subject line "WSM abstract [your last name]" to jvendett@nhm.org
or jannvendetti@yahoo.com

Abstracts should include:
- Indication of the author's preference that this presentation should
  be a poster or talk
- Title: Concise and descriptive, bold font left justified
- Author(s): Last name first, followed by initials, presenting author
  underlined, plain font, left justified
- Author(s) affiliation: Include full postal address and email for all
  authors, italics, left justified
- Main body: Use standard scientific English, avoid contractions, plain
  font, left justified
- References (if necessary): Author(s), year, title, journal (not
  abbreviated), volume, inclusive pages

 Talks will be limited to ten minutes plus five minutes for Q&A. Posters
 should not be larger than 40 x 30 inches.

WSM membership is not required for submitting an abstract
and/or poster but attending authors must register for the meeting at
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/western-society-of-malacologists-50th-annual-meeting-tickets-28744283927
Please feel free to share this announcement with colleagues, students,
and anyone interested in fossil mollusk research.

Abstract submission guidelines are here:
http://research.nhm.org/malacology/western-society-of-malacologists/

Jann Vendetti, Ph.D.
Assistant Curator & Twila Bratcher Chair in Malacology
Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
900 Exposition Blvd.
Los Angeles, CA 90007
Phone: 213-763-3380
http://www.inaturalist.org/projects/slime
www.nhm.org/slime

Jann Vendetti <JVendett@nhm.org>

