       3rd Bringing Maths to Life
     7-9 June 2017, Naples, Italy

                Deadline Extension: BMTL2017 Workshop

Dear Colleague,

We would like to invite you to the 3rd edition of the Bringing Maths to
Life Workshop, that will be held in Naples on 7-9 June
2017 (http://www.bmtl.it).
NEW: ABSTRACTS SUBMISSION DEADLINE EXTENSION 15th APRIL 2017

The workshop provides an occasion for biologists and mathematicians to
join forces in addressing key areas in biology that face demanding
mathematical challenges.Discussing existing cases to identify gaps or
to share existing solutions should help these disciplines in
successfully linking up.

BMTL 2017 workshop, as a melange of different fields, will consist of
selected contributions for open discussion to present and confront the
most updated results at the interface of mathematics and biology in
three main sessions:

1) Data: acquisition, pre-processing and storage of different -omics
datasets. The goal of this session is to discuss effective ways of
acquiring, processing, and storing data as a starting point for any
kind of analysis. Two large-scale projects will be presented within
this session. The first project, SardiNIA, recruited over 1.5 million
Sardinians across the island to gather enough cases and controls to
investigate genetic factors for a wide range of conditions and diseases
(see: https://sardinia.nia.nih.gov/). The second, MetaSUB (Metagenomics
& Metadesign of Subways & Urban Biomes), includes scientists tracking
the microbes in city subways and describe their diffusion on an
interactive map (see: http://metasub.org/).

2) Information: data analysis, novel -omics technologies, the
application of deep learning to different -omics datasets. The
integration of experimental data prior to their analysis requires full
understanding of the algorithms that need to be used in order to ensure
a correct application in answering biological questions. Case studies
of this session are two examples of metagenomics analyses. The first is
the analysis of data collected during the Tara Oceans expedition
including samples from 210 stations across the world oceans (see:
http://taraexpeditions-it.blogspot.it/)). The project is deciphering
how the most complex organisms evolved from primordial bacteria and in
future it will tell us about the fate of the myriad organisms present
today. The second concern the analysis of human gut microbiome.

3) Knowledge: integration of different -omics data, system biology of
-omics data. Methods for the integrative analysis of multi-omics data
are required to draw a more complete and accurate picture of the
dynamics of molecular systems. Unveiling the interactions between
diverse types of data allows to fully exploit their information. The
keynote lectures of this session will show the integration of genomic,
biochemical, and metabolic data under comprehensive mathematical
models.
This year the workshop will be held in the magnificent Capitolo Hall of
St. Domenico Maggiore Convent, one of the most important spaces created
during the renovation started by the prior Ruffo (XVII century).

Confirmed speakers include:

Dr. Valeria D'Argenio, University of Naples Federico II, Italy
Prof. Antti Honkela, University of Helsinki, Finland
Dr. Daniele Iudicone, Zoological Station of Naples A. Dohrn, Italy
Dr. Carlo Sidore, Institute of Genetic and Biomedical Research ?C CNR,
Italy
Prof. Klas I. Udekwu, The Wenner-Gren Institute Stockholm University,
Sweden
Prof. Hans Westerhoff, University of Amsterdam, Netherlands
For more information visit the website http://www.bmtl.it
Important dates:
Abstract submission & early registration: April 15th, 2017

Scientists are invited to send their contributions. Abstracts should be
in English and contain original research results. All abstracts will be
peer reviewed by the international scientific board that will decide
whether presenting them as a poster or an oral contribution.

Selected papers will be considered for peer-reviewing and publication
on a special issue of BMC Bioinformatics.

We hope to meeting you in Naples!
Kind regards,
The BMTL Organizing Committee
Vincenza Colonna, IGB - CNR
Mario Guarracino, ICAR - CNR
Alessandra Rogato, IBBR - CNR
Valeria Zazzu, formerly IGB - CNR

Learn More 

 www.bmtl.it
 info@bmtl.it
+39 0815515192

Bringing Maths To Life <newsletter@bmtl.it>

