Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: three advanced courses with deadlines
April-May 2017

cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes is
organizing several Advanced Courses: see below the two courses with closer deadlines.

Additional informations at:

http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: three advanced courses with deadlines April-early May
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes is
organizing several Advanced Courses: see below the three courses with closer deadlines.

Additional informations at:

http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

Course Nature-Based Design Frameworks
organized by Gil Penha-Lopes and Hugo Oliveira | New calendar! May
15h-19th 2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal

Objectives: The course will introduce participants to different
Nature-based bodies of knowledge and experience, such as the Biomimicry,
Permaculture and Resilience topics. With almost 2 days per topic, the
students will get a good feeling of how these topics see, do research and
implement effective and sustainable solutions targeting a wide variety
of societal, ecological and economic challenges.

Course instructors
Gil Penha-Lopes (Invited Assistant Professor at FCUL, Leader of
the Subgroup 'Adaptation and Sustainability', CCIAM, cE3c)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/gil-pessanha-penha-lopes
and Hugo Oliveira (PhD student, CCIAM, cE3c)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/hugo-ferreira-calado-de-oliveira
Intended audience: This five days intensive course will be open to
a maximum number of 24 participants, being directed to PhD or MSc
students in Biology, Environmental studies, Geography or related areas,
and postdocs and other professionals working in related topics.  Minimal
formation of students: Bachelor in Biology, Geography or related areas.

The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (BIODIV UL; UP),
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (BEAG UL; UA) and Climate Change
and Sustainable Development Policies (UL). For information of fees for
other participants see the programme details.

Deadline for applications: April 13th, 2017
Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to Gil
Penha-Lopes (email gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt) and Ângela Antunes (email
amantunes@fc.ul.pt).

For additional details about the programme of the course, fees and
to know how to register, click here, and access the specific course
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

For more information about the course, please contact: 
gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt

Course Natural History Collections and Biodiversity
Organized by Maria Judite Alves, Raquel Barata, Cristiane Bastos-Silveira
et al. | May 29 - June 2 @ Lisbon, Portugal

Objectives Natural history museums are privileged spaces for
seminal research on different subjects of biological sciences such
as biodiversity, evolution, ecology, biogeography and taxonomy. This
crucial role is due to the fact that they represent biological diversity
repositories becoming huge libraries of information on Earth living
organisms. The long-term sampling through various decades renders
to natural history collections an historic perspective that allows
reconstructing a "memory", sometimes secular, of natural patterns
and processes. This aspect gains particular relevance nowadays because
of the increasing rate of species extinctions and biodiversity decrease.

This course aims to: 
- evidence the importance of natural history collections for the study
  of biodiversity.
- show new tools and approaches to extract and disseminate biodiversity
  data from natural history collections
- increase awareness of young researchers for the scientific and culture
  value of Natural History Museums.

Course coordinator
Maria Judite Alves (Researcher at the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and
Environmental Changes (cE3c), Leader of the Subgroup Animal Biodiversity,
Evolution and Systematics, NHS group)

 (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/maria-judite-silva-cardoso-alves)

Intended audience
This five days intensive course will be open to a maximum number of 16
participants, being directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolution,
Ecology or related areas, and postdocs and other professionals working
in related topics.

Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology or related area. 
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees
for other participants see the programme details (access link below).

Deadline for applications: May 5, 2017
Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to Maria Judite
Alves (mjalves@fc.ul.pt)

For additional details about the programme of the course, fees and
to know how to register, click here, and access the specific course
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

For more information about the course, please contact by email: 
Maria Judite Alves (mjalves@fc.ul.pt)

Course Climate Change: scenarios, impacts and responses
organized by Luís Dias, Hugo Costa & David Avelar | June 19-23 2017
@ Lisbon, Portugal Objectives: The goal of this short course is to
introduce the students to the main climate change research concepts
and prepare them to use available information on scenarios, impacts and
adaptation. Specific goals include:

i)      Explore the current vulnerabilities in a range of sectors;
ii)     Study climate change scenarios (for local and national
        levels as well as for Europe and the World) and have an
        overview of projected changes and main expected impacts in
        different sectors;
iii)    Introduce vulnerability and risk assessment methodologies;
iv)     Study specific responses to climate change trough Adaptation
        (including Ecosystem-based Adaptation and Participatory
        approaches), looking at specific examples in a range of scales.

Course Coordinator:
Luís Dias (Post-Doc researcher at cE3c - Research Group CCIAM)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/luiacutes-filipe-antunes-dias

Intended audience
This five days intensive course will be open to a maximum number of
20 participants, being directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology,
Environmental studies, Geography or related areas, and postdocs and
other professionals working in related topics.  Minimum formation:
Bachelor in environmental sciences or related areas.  The course is free
for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL),
Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and Biology and Ecology of
Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees for other participants
see the programme details (access link below) Deadline for applications:
May 12, 2017 Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to
Luís Dias (lfdias@fc.ul.pt) and Ângela Antunes (amantunes@fc.ul.pt).
For additional details about the programme of the course, fees and
to know how to register, click here, and access the specific course
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

For more information about the course, please contact Luís Dias (lfdias@fc.ul.pt)

Margarida Matos <mmmatos@fc.ul.pt>

