APPLICATION DEADLINE:  April 7, 2017

Convening for its 30th year at the Marine Biological Lab in Woods Hole,
MA, the Workshop on Molecular Evolution will be held July 20-30, 2017.
The Workshop is the premier program for integrating the methods, theory,
and applications of molecular phylogenetics, statistical genetics,
molecular evolution, and related disciplines.  Students work closely
with internationally-recognized scientists, receiving (i) high-level
instruction in the principles of molecular evolution and evolutionary
genomics, (ii) advanced training in statistical methods best suited to
modern datasets, and (iii) hands-on experience with the latest software
tools (often from the authors of the programs they are using). The
material is delivered via lectures, discussions, and bioinformatic
exercises motivated by contemporary topics in molecular evolution. A
hallmark of this workshop is the direct interaction between students
and field-leading scientists. The workshop serves graduate students,
postdocs, and established faculty from around the world seeking to apply
the principles of molecular evolution to questions of both basic and
applied biological sciences. A priority of this workshop is to foster
an environment where students can learn from each other as well from
the course faculty.

As the course progresses, participants learn how to use the following
software to address questions concerning the origins, maintenance,
and function of molecular variation: ASTRAL, BEAST2, BEST, BPP, FASTA,
FigTree, GARLI, MIGRATE, MAFFT, MP-EST, RaxML, RevBayes, PAML, PAUP*,
Phybase, ipyrad and SVD Quartets. Students will have the opportunity to
work with software on their own laptops as well as receive training on
how to use the same programs on a high performance computer cluster.

Course instructors include Peter Beerli, Joseph Bielawski, Belinda Chang,
Mario dos Reis, Casey Dunn, Deren Eaton, Scott Edwards, Tracy Heath,
David Hillis, Mark Holder, John Huelsenbeck, Lacey Knowles, Laura Kubatko,
Peter Larsen, Paul Lewis, Emily Jane McTavish, Conor Meehan, Nicholas
Meyerson, William Pearson, David Swofford, David Weisrock, April Wright,
and Anne Yoder.

information on the Workshop and a link to the application page are
available on the dedicated course website:
https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=3Dhttps-3A__molevol.mbl.edu_index.php_Main-5FPage&d=DwIBAg&c=imBPVzF25OnBgGmVOlcsiEgHoG1i6YHLR0Sj_gZ4adc&r=aUlrl-ZempeNaLRY0gsnZTpP6CecsU48drplVPr1dj0&m=e3dZATSpks5obk9WV_KwbfytIFddaFpDLUSYuGAfrX0&s=HlWyls6tFplb-DCiL4rByDycvIANYFYoV0vYoO8GjhE&e= 

The dates for the Workshop are designed to allow students to segue
directly into the Strategies and Techniques for Analyzing Microbial
Population Structures (STAMPS) course, though please note that
applications for STAMPS must be submitted and are evaluated separately
from those for the Workshop on Molecular Evolution.

For further information, please contact Workshop co-Directors:

Anne Yoder (anne.yoder@duke.edu) and Joseph Bielawski (j.bielawski@dal.ca)

"adyoder@duke.edu" <adyoder@duke.edu>

