Dear Colleagues,

The Seventh annual Yosemite Symbiosis Workshop will take place on May
5th-7th, 2017 at the Sierra Nevada Research Institute, Yosemite National
Park. This has become a great venue for a diversity of symbiosis
researchers.  We hope to continue to attract a diverse group in 2017!

Keynote speaker 2017: Dr. Corrie Moreau from the Field Museum of Natural
History.

Information about our meeting:

Why: Our continuing goal is to better integrate the broad groups of
scientists that focus on symbiosis research. Yosemite serves as an ideal
site as it is both beautiful and secluded. This will be our 7th annual
meeting and we have been consistently attracting scientists from all over
the country and overseas.

Who: The meeting is small by design (~50 participants) and we seek to focus
on scientists interested in cooperation, mutualism, and symbiosis. In the
past we have covered a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution
to molecular mechanisms in different model and non-model systems. We would
like to make room for a diverse group of people so we will initially accept
up to 3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a first come first
served basis.

When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 6-7, 2017, though we
make accommodation arrangements available for attendees to arrive on Friday
the 5th to provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at the
conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an abstract and a
preference (talk versus poster). Priority will be given to those presenting.

Abstract and early bird registration are due on March 6th, 2017.

Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all within a short walk of
the conference room.

Costs: See details in the registration page. We will only be able to accept
credit card payments this year. Your registration is not activated until
you have completed the payment process. NOTE that the payment link is at
the top of the registration page. The registration fee  includes room and
board.

The registration form for the 2017 Symbiosis Workshop is active:
http://snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis

Please direct any questions to the organizers:
Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu
A. Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu

*Joel L. Sachs**, Associate Professor*
5406 Boyce Hall
Department of Biology
University of California, Riverside

*Mailing Address:*
Sachs Lab - UC Riverside
3401 Watkins Dr.
1229 Spieth Hall
Riverside, CA 92521

Office (951) 827-6357
Fax (951) 827-4286
www. sachslab.com
http://www.biology.ucr.edu/people/faculty/Sachs.html

"joels@ucr.edu" <joels@ucr.edu>

