First Call for Papers
RECOMB Comparative Genomics 2017

SCOPE
The annual RECOMB Comparative Genomics Satellite Conference (RECOMB-CG)
brings together leading researchers in the mathematical, computational and
life sciences to discuss cutting edge research in comparative genomics,
with an emphasis on computational approaches and the analysis of novel
experimental results. The program will include keynote talks, contributed
talks, and a poster session.

The 15th RECOMB-CG conference will be held in the Centre for Genome
Regulation (CRG), Barcelona, Spain, on October 04-06 2017. With this Call
for Papers we invite high-quality original full papers on topics related
to the conference theme. The conference will also have a poster session. A
detailed call for posters will be published later on the conference web
page:
http://www.crg.eu/en/event/15th-recomb-comparative-genomics-satellite-workshop

TOPICS
Papers are solicited on, but not limited to, the following topics:
genome evolution
genome rearrangements
genome variation, diversity and dynamics
phylogenomics
comparative tools for genome assembly
population genomics
comparison of functional networks
comparative epigenomics
paleogenomics
cancer evolution genomics
epidemiology
gene identification and/or annotation

IMPORTANT DATES
Paper Submission Deadline: June 11, 2017
Author Notification: July 07, 2017
Final Version Due: July 21, 2017
Conference: October 04-06, 2017

DETAILS ON SUBMITTING MANUSCRIPTS
Submitted papers must have not been published or be currently under
consideration for publication in any other journal or conference with
formal proceedings. Each accepted paper has to be presented by one of the
authors at the conference.
Accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings, a volume
in the Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics (LNBI) series.  In addition,
arrangements are being sought for providing extended publication with
additional refereeing in a prestigious journal in the area.  These
arrangements may involve Open Access journals, in which case there will be
an author fee in the event that an article is accepted.
Authors are encouraged to submit their manuscripts in PDF format according
to the LNBI series guidelines:
http://www.springer.com/us/computer-science/lncs/conference-proceedings-guidelines

Submitted papers must be within 15 pages, with optionally a clearly marked
appendix containing supplementary material made available to the
reviewers.

All submissions must be made online, through the EasyChair submission
system, at the following address:
https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=recombcg17
Authors need to register on that web site before submitting. A standard
PDF file must be received by midnight on June 11, 2017 (any time zone) in
order for a submission to be considered. Re-submission of already
submitted papers will be possible until midnight June 11, 2017 (any time
zone).

CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
Iria Fernández Silva (Department of Biochemistry, Genetics and Immunology,
School of Biology, University of Vigo ES)
Toni Gabaldón (Centre for Genomic Regulation, Barcelona ES)
Iñaki Ruiz-Trillo (ICREA Research Professor at Institut de Biologia
Evolutiva [CSIC-IBE], Barcelona ES)
Wes Warren (McDonnell Genomics Institute, Washington University School of
Medicine USA)

ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
Tomàs Marquès-Bonet (UPF) tomas.marques@upf.edu
Roderic Guigó Serra (CRG) roderic.guigo@crg.eu
Laura Prat Busquets (CRG Conference Officer) laura.prat@crg.eu

PROGRAM COMMITTEE
To be announced.  Co-chairs:
Joao Meidanis (UNICAMP)  Luay Nakhleh (Rice University)

CONTACT
meidanis@ic.unicamp.br nakhleh@rice.edu

David Sankoff <sankoff2@gmail.com>

