First Announcement:
 
Discussion Meeting : Conservation of Adaptive Potential and Functional
Diversity

14-15 September 2017, Durham University, UK

This meeting will explore the potential for new paradigms and next
generation sequencing to facilitate the more effective conservation
of adaptive potential and functional diversity.  Working with neutral
genetic markers has provided core information on population demography.
However, natural selection together with gene-environment interactions and
phenotypic plasticity (including epigenetic effects) allow a population
to respond to changing environments, and understanding this process will
need to be integrated into future conservation strategies.

Invited plenary speakers include Rasmus Nielsen (Berkeley), Bob Wayne
(UCLA), Paul Hohenlohe (Idaho), Chris Jiggins (Cambridge), Patrick
Nosil (Sheffield), Simone Sommer (Ulm), Oscar Gaggiotti (St. Andrews),
Barbara Mable (Glasgow), Violeta Munoz Fuentes (EMBL-EBI), Chris Funk
(Colorado), Rob Fleischer (Smithsonian), and Mike Bruford (Cardiff) -
full list available soon.   There will also be a series of shorter talks
chosen from among the submitted abstracts and a poster session. The
meeting will close with a discussion session on the key points raised
with participation by all.

Abstract Submission: If you would like to be considered for presenting a
talk or poster, please send an abstract in the following format: From the
top of the page provide the title of the presentation, then the full list
of author names, name of speaker (if for a talk), list of affiliations,
contact email address, choice of talk vs poster (required), and finally
the abstract (250 word maximum). All should be single-spaced and in 12pt
Times Roman font. The abstract should reach us by 15 July 2017.

Please send abstracts to: cap.meeting@durham.ac.uk

Meeting sponsored by Springer-Nature and the Genetics Society.
 
Registration and further information available at:
 
https://www.dur.ac.uk/conference.booking/details/?id=761
 
Note that spaces are limited so early registration and abstract submission
strongly recommended.

Cost is GBP 24.00, which includes attendance both days together with
coffee/ tea and lunch.

"HOELZEL, RUS A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk>

