Gordon Research Conference -

Ecological & Evolutionary Genomics

(http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=13136)

Connecting Genomic Diversity to Organisms and Environments: Gaining
Insights from Advances in Technology, Theory, and Applications

The 2017 Gordon Research Conference on Ecological and Evolutionary
Genomics will highlight recent advances in our understanding of the
genomic basis of adaptation and the interaction between organisms and
the dynamic environments they live in. This meeting will highlight a
combination of empirical studies, recent theoretical advances and
emerging technologies. Topical areas such as population genomics,
phylogenomics, adaptation, the genomic basis of development, and
functional genomic responses to the environment will highlight how the
rapidly advancing field of genome biology can inform our understanding
of the evolutionary and ecological processes that shape biodiversity.
The conference will highlight the analysis of large, complex data sets
and emerging technologies driving the expanding scale of these data.

Co-chairs, Felicity Jones (Max Plank Institute, Tubingen) and Michael
Pfrender (University of Notre Dame) along with co-Vice Chairs,
Christian Landry (Universite Laval) and Angela Douglas (Cornell
University) invite you to join us on the ocean-side campus of the
University of New England in Biddeford, Maine for a stimulating
conference. We are assembling a diverse group of established and early
career investigators to discuss their latest work. Many sessions will
include talks by speakers chosen from among the submitted abstracts.
The organizers are actively seeking funds to assist students and others
attending the meeting. Applications for attendance will be accepted on
a first-come-first serve basis until the meeting is full. Don't delay!
Gordon Conferences are famous for fostering in depth interactions that
yield new insights in a collegial atmosphere. Please plan on joining us
in Biddeford in 2017.

Application Deadline

Applications for this meeting must be submitted by June 18, 2017.
Please apply early, as some meetings become oversubscribed (full)
before this deadline. If the meeting is oversubscribed, it will be
stated here. Note: Applications for oversubscribed meetings will only
be considered by the Conference Chair if more seats become available
due to cancellations.

Join us for this great conference. Inquiries can be directed to Michael
Pfrender (michael.pfrender.1@nd.edu).

Best regards,

Michael Pfrender & Felicity Jones Co-Chairs

Angela Douglas & Christian Landry Co-Vicechairs

Michael E. Pfrender, Director Genomics & Bioinformatics Core Facility
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
109B Galvin Life Science Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA
Ph#: 574-631-0591 (O)
Pfrender Lab (http://www.nd.edu/~mpfrende/)
Eck Institute for Global Health (http://globalhealth.nd.edu/)
Environmental Change Initiative (http://environmentalchange.nd.edu)
Genomics and Bioinformatics Core Facility (http://genomics.nd.edu)

Michael Pfrender <Michael.Pfrender.1@nd.edu>

