We have received a grant from the American Genetic Association to
offset the substantial financial demands of travel to and registration
for the 2017 European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) Congress
in Groningen, Netherlands for students and postdocs that would like to
attend our workshop: "Science policies: how should evolutionary biology
be funded?". This workshop is part of the official ESEB 2017 program in
Groningen (see details below). We have funds available to support ~$750
towards travel/accommodation/registration for each of 10 students/postdocs
that do not otherwise have funding available to attend the Congress.

Interested students/postdocs should contact Maurine
Neiman (maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu) and Stephanie Meirmans
(s.meirmans@hum.leidenuniv.nl) ASAP. General inquiries are welcome. Those
already planning to apply should include their name, position, a short
( <4 page) CV, and a short (~1-2 paragraph) statement of motivation to
attend our workshop (what they can contribute to and how they will benefit
from the workshop) as well as a one-paragraph statement about how their
participation will contribute to workshop and/or ESEB Congress diversity.

Early-bird registration ends April 14, so we will have an initial deadline
of April 10, with the goal of getting back to applicants by April 13 so
that they can register in time to receive the early-bird discount. Funds
permitting, we will consider additional applicants after that date.

Details on Workshop: "Science policies: how should evolutionary biology
be funded?"

Organizers: Stephanie Meirmans and Maurine Neiman

The main goal of our workshop is to trigger a translatable discussion
of how funding affects scientific quality, what scientific quality
is, and whether and how the current funding system could improve. We
invite you as active researchers to participate and make contributions
to this discussion. Our ultimate aim is for you to return to your home
institutions and countries and continue these discussions with colleagues,
funding agencies, etc. Our workshop focus is important to virtually every
evolutionary biologist and is particularly topical because of recent
changes in how science is funded worldwide: increasingly, funding is both
assessed by internal scientific quality and by external criteria such
as societal relevance and technological-economic impact. These changes
have created across-country differences in funding policies, inviting
a critical systematic reflection that could have real impact in a time
when funding policies are in a phase of transition in many countries.

Our workshop will feature two internationally recognized invited
speakers with direct involvement in research funding, Leslie Rissler
(US National Science Foundation), and (tentatively) Nils Christian
Stenseth (University of Oslo/ Scientific Council of the European Research
Council). The workshop also includes two panel discussions on this topic:
Roger Butlin, George Gilchrist, Hanna Kokko, and Stephen Stearns (Panel
1), and Anne Charmantier, Jan Engelstädter, Astrid Groot, Kayla King,
Pleuni Pennings and Jane Reid (Panel 2). The audience will be invited
to actively participate in the discussion, so please come prepared with
questions and insights.

"Neiman, Maurine" <maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu>

