Dear colleagues,

Last chance to submit a poster abstract for State of the World's
Plants 2017: deadline Friday 21 April

State of the World's Plants Symposium

25-26 May 2017

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew

The State of the World's Plants Symposium coincides with the
publication of a cutting-edge annual report highlighting our current
knowledge of the Earth's plant diversity, the global threats that
plants face and the policies dealing with them.

The symposium is based around six themed sessions, each comprising
talks from invited experts and a panel Q&A. Speakers will address a
series of globally important questions relating to their own plant
science research and policy work:

1)     Madagascar: megadiverse and misunderstood - how can we hope to
reverse threats to biodiversity?

2)     The immediate risk of extinction: climate change won't matter
if everything has already died out; 

3)     Wildfires: a necessary evil?

4)     Invasive plants: born to invade?

5)     From field to healed: how do we detect the medicinal plants of
the future?

6)     Valuing nature: which plant species are most valuable?

Call for abstracts

We are inviting abstracts from delegates wishing to present a poster
and a one-minute oral presentation. Prizes will be awarded for the best
early career researcher posters.

Deadline for abstract submissions: Friday 21 April 2017

Registration ????150

The registration fee includes entry into all symposium sessions, lunch
and refreshments on both days, a drinks reception and behind the scenes
tours of Kew's collections.

Deadline for registration: Tuesday 25 April 2017

For more information, to submit an abstract or to register for the
meeting, please visit: www.kew.org/sotwp-symposium

Early Career Researcher travel bursary

The Society for Experimental Biology has very kindly offered to sponsor
one early career researcher to attend the symposium. The recipient will
receive up to ????1,000 to support their meeting registration, travel and
accommodation costs. The bursary is offered to promote the
international collaboration goals of the Society for Experimental
Biology and the Global Plant Council, and applications from all
countries are welcomed.

For guidelines on how to apply for the bursary, please visit:
http://blog.globalplantcouncil.org/scientific-meetings/early-career-res
earcher-travel-bursary-to-attend-the-state-of-the-worlds-plants-symposi
um-2017/

Deadline for applications: 9 am (BST), Tuesday 18^ April 2017

Best wishes,

The State of the World's Plants team

Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew,

Richmond, Surrey, TW9 3AB

sotwp@kew.org

SOTWP_email signature

State of the World's Plants Symposium

25-26 May 2017, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew

  

State Of The World's Plants <sotwp@kew.org>

