Subject:TheSummer Workshop on Population-Scale Genomic Studies of
EnvironmentalStress (EnGen 2017),  July 8- July 15, with scholarships
stillavailable

Next-GenerationSummerCourse in Environmental Genomics at the Mount
DesertIsland Biological Laboratory

Atechnicalcourse that provides participants with the skills needed to
generateand analyze modern sequence data (DNA, RNA) through a hands-on
approachthat utilizes novel data to guide research into how environmental
conditionsaffect gene responses and the fitness of organisms while
accountingfor population structure.

Date:July8- July 15, 2017.
Numberofparticipants: Restricted to 25.
Only$300registration fee!

Wearepleased to announce that this course is now supported by the
NationalInstitutes of Health through the Big Data To Knowledge (BD2K)
Program.Therefore, scholarships are available for US citizens or
permanentresidents, including room and board.

https://mdibl.org/course/environmental-genomics/

PleasecontactJohn Colbourne (J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk) and Joe Shaw
(joeshaw@indiana.edu)if you are a non-US citizenor permanent resident
wantingto participate.

Thefacultyat MDI Biological Lab is pleased to again offer a training
coursein Environmental Genomics, aiming to better understand technologies
andapproaches used to discover how gene function is influenced by
environmentalconditions while accounting for variation that exists
withinand among natural populations. This course is built on the
paradigmthat the research field will most effectively grow by properly
designinglarge-scale experiments enabled by drastically increased
sample-throughputand lower sequencing costs. Most importantly, the
bioinformaticschallenges of manipulating and analyzing population-level
genomicsdata must be addressed.  

Thiscourseis designed to train the next-generation of environmental
scientists,which have included in past years: university professors,
postdoctoralresearchers, doctoral students and government scientists,
representinginstitutions from North America and Europe. Most responded in
thedeparture survey that the course curriculum, choice of technologies,
andeffectiveness provided sufficient training to either begin or enlarge
anenvironmental genomics project in their own laboratories. All reported
thatthey would recommend this course to a colleague.

Thiscoursetrains researchers to design studies, and to collect and
analyzeRNA-Seq gene expression data. Daphnia is used for training
becauseof its growing use as a model system for environmental genomics
andfor improving environmental health protection, yet the skills learned
duringthe course will be applicable to all study systems with maturing
genomicsresources, including humans. Much time is devoted to guiding
thecurrent and future projects of attendees.

Ultimately,participantswill be better positioned to incorporate
thesetechnologies into their own research laboratories, while better
understandinghow functional genomics and automation can be applied to
ecology,evolution and environmental toxicology. 

MountDesertIsland Biological Laboratory
OldBarHarbor Rd., Salisbury Cove, ME 04672
MDIBL-http://www.mdibl.org

j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk

