II Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology - Montpellier 2018
CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS

The 2nd Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology gathering the European 
Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), the Society for the study of 
Evolution (SSE), the American Society of Naturalists (ASN) and the 
Society of Systematic Biology (SSB) will take place in Montpellier 
(France), August 19-22, 2018.

Joint Congresses take place every six years and bring together four of 
the world's largest academic societies in the field of evolutionary 
biology. The very first edition took place in Ottawa, Canada in 2012.

The conference in Montpellier will host a large number of thematic 
symposia and all contributed talks will be selected based on their fit 
to the symposia of their choice.

Submissions for symposium proposals are now invited. These will be 
processed through our website, currently at:
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org

Information about the symposia can be found at:
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/call-symposia

For symposium submission, please go to:
http://evolutionmontpellier2018.org/symposium-proposal

You will be asked to provide:

1. The names and e-mail addresses of one organizer (for all 
correspondence) and one co-organizer (as a replacement). Both must be 
committed to attend the whole meeting.

2. The proposed symposium title.

3. A summary of max 200 words explaining why you think this makes a good 
subject for the Evolution conference.

4. The name of one invited speaker (please check beforehand whether that 
person is available). Organizers cannot invite themselves to their own 
symposium.

The deadline for submission is June 26, 2017. Proposals will be 
evaluated by the Scientific Committee, and the selected list 
communicated in the Fall 2017. Symposia proposals on overlapping 
subjects may be requested to fuse.
We will aim for a very diverse list of symposia covering as many areas 
of research in Evolution as possible, as well as emerging questions. We 
therefore strongly encourage members of all societies, as well as 
non-members, to propose symposia.

ophelie.ronce@univ-montp2.fr

