                    BIOLOGY OF SNAKES CONFERENCE

                        JULY 26th-29th, 2017

                       www.biologyofsnakes.com

 To celebrate their beauty, importance, and conservation, Chiricahua
DesertMuseum & Geronimo Event Center is planning and hosting the first
Biology of Snakes Conference (BoS). Previous professional meetings on
 snakes that we have organized placed emphasis on certain lineages,
predominatelythe vipers, boas, and pythons (Biology of the Pitvipers,
Biologyof the Vipers, Biology of the Boas and Pythons), but for BoS we
are throwing out the broadest net possible and intend to explore and
 discuss the entire group. Indeed, this is an exciting and ambitious
      agenda. We welcome everyone who is interested in snakes!

The schedule begins with our invited speakers. These three luminaries
have made tremendous contributions to our knowledge of snakes; we are
             privileged to have them attend and present.

¡ñ Dr. Wolfgang W¨¹ster will deliver the Keynote. His talk is titled,
"Natural History and Genetic Basis of Venom Evolution." Those of you
who have seen Wolfgang speak know that he will give us a very lively
                     and exciting presentation.

 ¡ñ  Dr. Frank Burbrink is our featured speaker. His recent work on
 snakes has taken him far from his office in New York. Frank will be
discussing, "The Origin and Diversification of Snakes in Madagascar."

¡ñDr. Mark O'Shea is our banquet speaker. Most of us know that Mark is
  always on the move, but somehow we were able to lure him to this
 meeting. He will engage and entertain us with an intriguing title,
       "Amphibian and Reptile Art in Miniature: Adventures in
                         Herpeto-Philately."

Wewill be honoring three world-class artists who have made snakes and
otherreptiles prime subjects of their art (see their profiles and art
atthe BoS website). At the conference, these individuals will discuss
their remarkable careers. In some form or another, their art will be
showcased and available for sale. Also, you may contact them ahead of
 the meeting if you would like to have them to deliver a particular
                  piece of art you want to acquire.

     Tell Hicks                              tellhicks@gmail.com

             Carel Brest van Kempen       cpbvk@juno.com

            William B. Montgomery       wbmont@gmail.com

                             Contact Us!

Ifyou have any questions, concerns, or need more general information,
    do not hesitate to contact one of us. The phone number at the
             Chiricahua Desert Museum is (575) 557-5757.

Asthe organizers of Biology of Snakes Conference 2017, it is our hope
thatyou will find this meeting educational, innovative, inspiring, and
                             enjoyable.

>Fromall of us, thank you for your valued support and participation in
                       this important meeting.

Dr.Gordon W. Schuett
gwschuett@yahoo.com

Dr.Chuck Smith
charlessmith35@gmail.com

Dr.Warren Booth
warren-booth@utulsa.edu

BobAshley
bobashleycdm@hotmail.com

SheriAshley                            ecoorders@hotmail.com

---

Dr.Warren Booth

AssistantProfessor of Molecular Ecology

Departmentof Biological Sciences
Universityof Tulsa
315Oliphant Hall

Tulsa,OK 74104

Tel.

(918)631-3421 ?C Office

(918)631-3136 ?C Lab

Labwebsite

"Booth,Warren" <warren-booth@utulsa.edu>

