*Subject:* Call for Applications: RevBayes NIMBioS Tutorial: Bayesian
Inference of Phylogeny
The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS)
is now accepting applications for its Tutorial, "RevBayes: Bayesian
Inference of Phylogeny," to be held August 7-11, 2017, at NIMBioS.

*Objectives:  *This course features RevBayes, an exciting new program for
Bayesian inference of phylogeny. RevBayes is the successor to the popular
program MrBayes, but represents both a complete rewrite of the computer
code and a fundamental re-conception of phylogenetic models. Specifically,
RevBayes adopts a 'graphical-model' framework that views all statistical
models as comprised of components that can be assembled in myriad
configurations to explore a corresponding array of questions. This
graphical-model approach to phylogenetic inference provides effectively
infinite flexibility. Moreover, the graphical models are specified using an
R-like language, Rev, that empowers users to construct arbitrarily complex
phylogenetic models from simple component parts (i.e. random variables,
parameter transformations and constants of different sorts).

This course is focused on phylogenetic trees and comparative-phylogenetic
methods, including divergence-time estimation, morphological evolution,
lineage diversification, and historical biogeography. Instruction is based
on a combination of carefully tailored lectures introducing the theoretical
and conceptual basis of each inference problem and hands-on computer
tutorials demonstrating how to explore these questions using RevBayes (see
http://revbayes.github.io/tutorials.html).

Participants are not assumed to have expertise in phylogenetic theory;
rather, we provide an accessible introduction to Bayesian statistical
inference and stochastic models. We assume only that the students are
familiar with phylogenetic trees and their applications to evolutionary
biology. We therefore anticipate that this course will be most suitable for
senior PhD students, postdoctoral researchers, and faculty who want to
learn these techniques.

*Location: *NIMBioS at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville

*Instructors: *Bastien Boussau, CNRS Researcher, Univ. of Lyon; Emma
Goldberg, Assistant Professor, Univ. of Minnesota; Tracy A. Heath,
Assistant Professor, Iowa State Univ.; Sebastian Höhna, Postdoc, Univ. of
California, Berkeley; John Huelsenbeck, Professor, Univ. of California,
Berkeley; Brian Moore, Professor, Univ. of California, Davis; April M.
Wright, Postdoc, Iowa State Univ.

For more information about the tutorial and a link to the online
application form, go to http://www.nimbios.org/tutorials/TT_revbayes

*Registration Fee: *$500 for faculty and postdocs and $350 for students,
payable upon acceptance of application.

Participation in NIMBioS tutorials is by application only. Individuals with
a strong interest in the topic are encouraged to apply, and successful
applicants will be notified within three weeks after the application
deadline.

*Application deadline:* May 14, 2017 (applications received after the
deadline will be considered if space is available)

The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS) (
http://www.nimbios.org) brings together researchers from around the world
to collaborate across disciplinary boundaries to investigate solutions to
basic and applied problems in the life sciences. NIMBioS is sponsored by
the National Science Foundation, with additional support from The
University of Tennessee, Knoxville.

Sebastian Höhna <sebastian.hoehna@gmail.com>

