13^th Summer course on marine ecological & evolutionary genomics at the
Marine Biological Station of Roscoff (F)

REMINDER

>From June 5th^ - June 16th, 2017

the 13^th Summer Course on Marine Ecological & Evolutionary Genomics
- MEEG 2017

takes place at the Station Biologique de Roscoff, Roscoff, France.

Aims:

Genomic knowledge is crucial for understanding the marine environment
and for an efficient use of its resources. State of the art NGS methods
have revolutionized the field, spawning applications in basic research,
biotechnology and resource management. The course will focus on the
latest developments in population genomics, including biodiversity,
evolution, comparative and functional aspects through lectures, case
studies and computer labs. It takes place at the Biological Station, a
vibrant research community of 273 scientists and support personnel,
located in the old town and fishing port of Roscoff, Brittany, France.

The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer based exercises on
the following topics.

-    Genomics - next generation sequencing, database searching, basic
skills in data handling and bioinformatics

-    Population genomics - diversity, structure, connectivity and
gene flow, assignment, effective population size, population dynamics,
adaptive variation, genotyping by sequencing

-    Environmental genomics - environment-genome interactions,
ecogenomics and metagenetics

-    Functional genomics - genome structure, molecular evolution at
the functional level, genomic architecture, functional networks

-    Comparative genomics - whole genome comparisons, concatenated
phylogenies, genome organization, annotating genomic information,
co-evolution

-    metagenomics

The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.

Target group:

PhD students (at least in their second year) and junior postdocs with a
solid knowledge in ecological and/or evolutionary genetics.

18 participants will be selected on the following criteria:

1.        Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc project

2.        Background and experience

3.        We aim at training people with different research
backgrounds; not more than one person per institute will be considered.
We implement a gender policy.

The selected persons will be notified by Friday 14^th April and will
have to confirm attendance within 7 days. There is a waiting list in
case of non-confirmations and cancellations.

Teaching staff :

Nicola Barson, NMBU, No

Sarah Bouchemousse, UniFr, Ch

Jonas Collen, SB-Roscoff, FR

Simon Creer, Univ. Bangor, UK

Yves Desdevises, OO-Banyuls, FR

Pierre-Alexandre Gagnaire, U Montpellier, FR

Erica Leder, Univ. Turku, Fi

Daniel Vaulot, SB-Roscoff

Frederique Viard, SB-Roscoff, FR

Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE

Organizing committee

Jonas Collen, SB-Roscoff, FR

Damien Guiffant, SB-Roscoff, FR

Matthias Obst, Univ. Gothenburg, SE

Nic Blouin, Univ. Rhode Island, USA

Nathalie Turque, EMBRC-France, FR

Daniel Vaulot, SB-Roscoff, FR

Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE

For information, a flyer and application please check
http://meeg2017.sciencesconf.org.

Application deadline is April 2 2017.

Filip Volckaert <filip.volckaert@kuleuven.be>

