Introduction to bioinformatics using Linux (workflows) (IBUL))
Delivered by Dr Martin Jones

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/introduction-to-bioinformatics-using-linux-ibul02/

This course will run from 16th - 20th October at SCENE Field Station,
Loch Lomond, Glasgow

Prices start at pounds 475.00 (~550.00 euros), accommodation packages
available also available.

OVERVIEW
Most high-throughput bioinformatics work these days takes place on the
Linux command line. The programs which do the majority of the
computational heavy lifting -- genome assemblers, read mappers, and
annotation tools -- are designed to work best when used with a
command-line interface. Because the command line can be an intimidating
environment, many biologists learn the bare minimum needed to get their
analysis tools working. This means that they miss out on the power of
Linux to customize their environment and automate many parts of the
bioinformatics workflow. This course will introduce the Linux command
line environment from scratch and teach students how to make the most
of its tools to achieve a high level of productivity when working with
biological data.
Course content is as follows

Monday 16th

Module 1: The design of Linux.
In the first session we briefly cover the design of Linux: how is it
different from Windows/OSX and how is it best used? We'll then jump
straight onto the command line and learn about the layout of the Linux
file system and how to navigate it. We'll describe Linux's file
permission system (which often trips up beginners), how paths work, and
how we actually run programs on the command line. We'll learn a few
tricks for using the command line more efficiently, and how to deal
with programs that are misbehaving. We'll finish this session by
looking at the built in help system and how to read and interpret
manual pages.

Module 2: System management.
We'll first look at a few command line tools for monitoring the
status of the system and keeping track of what's happening to
processor power, memory, and disk space. We'll go over the process of
installing new software from the built in repositories (which is easy)
and from source code downloads (which is trickier). We'll also
introduce some tools for benchmarking software (measuring the
time/memory requirements of processing large datasets).

Tuesday 17th

Module 3: Manipulating tabular data.
Many data types we want to work with in bioinformatics are stored as
tabular plain text files, and here we learn all about manipulating
tabular data on the command line. We'll start with simple things like
extracting columns, filtering and sorting, searching for text before
moving on to more complex tasks like searching for duplicated values,
summarizing large files, and combining simple tools into long commands.

Module 4: Constructing pipelines.
In this session we will look at the various tools Linux has for
constructing pipelines out of individual commands. Aliases, shell
redirection, pipes, and shell scripting will all be introduced here.
We'll also look at a couple of specific tools to help with running
tools on multiple processors, and for monitoring the progress of long
running tasks.

Wednesday 18th

Module 5: EMBOSS.
EMBOSS is a suite of bioinformatics command-line tools explicitly
designed to work in the Linux paradigm. We'll get an overview of the
different sequence data formats that we might expect to work with, and
put what we learned about shell scripting to biological use by building
a pipeline to compare codon usage across two collections of DNA
sequences.

Module 6: - Using a Linux server.
Often in bioinformatics we'll be working on a Linux server rather
than our own computer-- typically because we need access to more
computing power, or to specialized tools and datasets. In this session
we'll learn how to connect to a Linux server and how to manage
sessions. We'll also consider the various ways of moving data to and
from a server from your own computer, and finish with a discussion of
the considerations we have to make when working on a shared computer.

Thursday 19th

Module 7: Combining methods.
In the next two sessions -- i.e. one full day -- we'll put
everything we have learned together and implement a workflow for
next-gen sequence analysis. In this first session we'll carry out
quality control on some paired-end Illumina data and map these reads to
a reference genome. We'll then look at various approaches to
automating this pipeline, allowing us to quickly do the same for a
second dataset.

Module 18: Combining methods.
The second part of the next-gen workflow is to call variants to
identify SNPs between our two samples and the reference genome. We'll
look at the VCF file format and figure out how to filter SNPs for read
coverage and quality. By counting the number of SNPs between each
sample and the reference we will try to figure out something about the
biology of the two samples. We'll attempt to automate this analysis
in various ways so that we could easily repeat the pipeline for
additional samples.

Friday 20th

Module 9: Customization.
Part of the Linux design is that everything can be customized. This can
be intimidating at first but, given that bioinformatics work is often
fairly repetitive, can be used to good effect. Here we'll learn about
environment variables, custom prompts, soft links, and ssh
configuration --  a collection of tools with modest capabilities, but
which together can make life on the command line much more pleasant. In
this last session there will also be time to continue working on the
next-gen sequencing pipeline.

The afternoon of Friday 19th is reserved for finishing off the next-gen
workflow exercise, working on your own datasets, or leaving early for
travel.
Please email any inquiries to oliverhooker@informatics.com or visit our
website www.prinformatics.com
Please feel free to distribute this material anywhere you feel is
suitable.

Other up-coming courses

1.       CODING, DATA MANAGEMENT AND SHINY APPLICATIONS USING RSTUDIO
FOR EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGISTS AND ECOLOGISTS #CDSR

15th - 19th May, Scotland Dr. Aline Quadros

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/coding-data-management-
and-shiny-applications-using-rstudio-for-evolutionary-
biologists-and-ecologists-cdsr01/

2.       BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOLOGISTS #BIGB

3rd - 7th July 2017, Scotland, Dr. Nic Blouin, Dr. Ian Misner

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/bioinformatics-for-
geneticists-and-biologists-bigb02/

3.       INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMATICS USING LINUX #IBUL

16th - 20th October, Scotland, Dr. Martin Jones

http://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
bioinformatics-using-linux-ibul02/

4.       INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS #IPYB

27th Nov - 1st Dec, Wales, Dr. Martin Jones

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/introduction-to-python-
for-biologists-ipyb04/

5.       DATA VISUALISATION AND MANIPULATION USING PYTHON #DVMP

11th - 15th December 2017, Wales, Dr. Martin Jones

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/data-visualisation-and-
manipulation-using-python-dvmp01/

6.       EUKARYOTIC METABARCODING

20^th - 24^th January 2018, Scotland, Dr. Owen Wangensteen

http://www.prinformatics.com/course/eukaryotic-metabarcoding-eukb01/

Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prinformatics.com>

