Below the description and the flyer attached
8ICME - MICROBIAL METAGENOME ANALYSIS: HANDS-ON TRAINING
Location: CNR-Institute of Ecosystem Study, Verbania, Italy.

Organizers: MEG@CNR-ISE and Microb&co.

Data: 12-16 June 2017
The course will be held from 12 to 16 June 2017 at the CNR-Institute of
Ecosystem Study in Verbania, Italy. It focuses on how to assemble,
annotate, and analyze whole metagenomic data in the broadest ecological
context. Four an a half days of direct lectures and computer based
practical trainings, starting from the raw sequences obtained by
shotgun sequencing to final data analyses in the ecological and
evolutionary framework.

Topics : Metagenomic Sequencing, history, application and project
planning; Assembly, Binning and Annotation: theory and hands-on
training.

Keynote speakers: Jean-Francois Flot | Free University of Brussels;
Andrea Franzetti | University of Milan Bicocca; Mariangela Girlanda |
University of Turin; Roland Marmeisse | Universite Lyon 1.

Instructors: Ester Eckert, Gianluca Corno, Diego Fontaneto, Andrea Di
Cesare MEG@CNR-ISE;  Stefano Amalfitano CNR-IRSA Rome; Gian Marco Luna
CNR-ISMAR Ancona; Angelina Lo Giudice CNR-IAMC Messina; Grazia Quero
CNR-ISMAR Venice; Manuela Coci Microb&co.

Participation is limited to 20 PhD students or early career researchers
selected on the basis of their CV and motivation letter (deadline 30
April). Registration fee: 480 euro pp including full participation,
social events, lunches, tutorial material, lectures and protocols.

The course is eligible for recognition of educational credits by
different university and institutions
A grant participation will be awarded to the memory of Luigi Michaud.

The award will go to a participant PhD student, carrying out research
activities in the field of aquatic microbial ecology with dedication
and passion.

More information: www. microbeco.org
Thanks for posting!
Manuela

MICROB&CO - microbial ecology services
Headquarter Viale XX Settembre 45, Catania, Italy
Workshop: Via Centuripe, 2A, Catania, Italy
PI: 05063770878
info@microbeco.org
www.microbeco.org

info_microbeco <info@microbeco.org>

