Reduced representation genome sequencing (RADseq) data analysis for
population genetics, association studies and phylogenetics

Dates

4-8 December 2017

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course16/

INSTRUCTORS

Dr. Naiara Rodriguez-Ezpeleta
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t19/ (Senior Researcher,
Marine Research Division, AZTI, Spain)

https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t19/

Dr. Josephine Paris https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t21/
(University of Exeter, UK)

https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t21/

COURSE OVERVIEW

Reduced representation genome sequencing methods are revolutionizing
evolutionary analyses of non-model organisms. Several data generation
and data analysis protocols have been developed to generate thousands
of sequence variants in hundreds of individuals at relative low cost
and speed. In this course, we will introduce the different approaches
for obtaining reduced representation genome sequencing data and will
specially focus on the data analysis. We will cover all necessary steps
to obtain genome variants from short read data that are informative for
population genetics, phylogenetic and association studies.

WORKSHOP FORMAT

The workshop will be delivered over the course of five days. Each day will
include an introductory lecture with class discussion of key concepts. The
remainder of each day will consist of practical hands-on sessions. These
sessions will involve a combination of both mirroring exercises with the
instructor to demonstrate a skill as well as applying these skills on
your own to complete individual exercises. After and during each exercise,
interpretation of results will be discussed as a group.

WHO SHOULD ATTEND

This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical workers who are
generating and/or analyzing reduced representation genome sequencing data
(RAD-seq, ddRAD, 2bRAD, GBS,). Examples demonstrated in this course
will involve primarily non-model organisms and examples of applications
of this data type for different purposes will be covered.

REQUIREMENTS

Attendees should have a background in biology. We will dedicate one
session to some basic and advanced Linux concepts. Attendees should
have also some familiarity with genomic data such as that arising from
NGS sequencers.

CURRICULUM

Monday 4th- Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Lecture 1- Introduction to high-throughput reduced representation data

Lab 1-Computer environment set up and introduction to UNIX

Lab 2- High-throughput data quality assessment

Tuesday 5th-Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Lecture 2- Overview of reduced representation library sequencing data
analysis strategies: considerations depending of each case study

Lab 3- Data preprocessing

Wednesday 6th-Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Lecture 3- De novo and reference based loci assembly and informative
marker selection

Lab 4- De novo loci assembly

Lab 5- Reference genome based loci assembly

Thursday 7th-Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Lecture 4- Applications of reduced representation sequencing data to
population genetics, genome wide association studies and phylogenetics

Lab 6- From assembled loci to informative marker selection

Friday 8th-Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Lecture 5-Review. Questions and Answers. Open discussion.

Lab 7 -Continue previous unfinished exercises or work on your own data

Further information:

The cost is 480 euros (VAT included) including course material and
refreshments. We also offer an all-inclusive package at 745 euros (VAT
included), which includes course material, refreshments, accommodation
and meals.

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

