Interdisciplinary Workshop on Holobionts
November 6-8, 2017
University of Bordeaux. Bordeaux, France
<https://www.immuconcept.org/holobiont-workshop/>
Organizers: Derek Skillings and Thomas Pradeu

Microbes play a significant role in the evolution, development, health, and
ecological interactions of multicellular organisms. The importance of
microbial interactions is now widely recognized and at the center of many
new research initiatives across the life sciences. Part of this emerging
research has focused on reconceptualizing all macroorganisms as
"holobionts", defined as a host and all its microbial symbionts, with the
genomic complement of all partners becoming the "hologenome". There has
been extensive debate about the importance and need for such a
reconceptualization, and how it will shape research and our understanding
of the living world moving forward.

This workshop will bring together researchers from diverse disciplines
(microbiology, evolutionary biology, ecology, pathology, neuroscience,
medicine, philosophy) working on holobionts and host-microbe associations,
in order to foster interdisciplinary communication, investigate whether
there are any particular insights or fruitful general principles that
emerge from investigations across fields, and hopefully stimulate
collaborative research for the future.

If you would like to participate by giving a talk, please submit an
abstract or prospectus (up to 1000 words) by going to the link on the
workshop website. Submissions should be prepared for blind review and
uploaded by the Abstract Deadline: July 16, 2017.

Registration for the workshop by October 1st, 2017 is required, but free.
Follow the website for further updates.

Confirmed Speakers:
John Cryan - University College Cork
John Dupré- University of Exeter
Ruth Gates - Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology
Carmen Lía Murall - CNRS, University of Montpellier
Forest Rohwer - San Diego State University
Pamela Schnupf - Pasteur Institute
Philippe Vandenkoornhuyse - University of Rennes

This workshop is part of the Immunity, DEvelopment and the Microbiota
(IDEM) project, an ERC-funded project located at the interface of
philosophy of biology and biology (ERC Grant #637647, PI: Thomas Pradeu).

derek.skillings@gmail.com

