Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: three advanced courses with deadlines
end May-June2017

cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes is
organizing several Advanced Courses: see below the three with closer
deadlines (last before summer holidays!).

Additional informations at:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

-----

Lichens as a tool for interpretation of environmental changes 

taught by Pedro Pinho, Paula Matos, Silvana Munzi et al.| July 10-14
2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal

Objectives: With this course, we aim at providing the participants
with the basics of lichen biology and ecology, biomonitoring and data
analysis methods to allow the use of lichens for the interpretation
of the environmental conditions and the development of a responsible
scientific-based environmental management.

Course coordinator
Pedro Pinho (paplopes@fc.ul.pt) Post-Doc at the Centre
for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes (cE3c)
(http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/pedro-pinho)

Intended audience
This course will be open to a maximum number of 18 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Ecology, Environmental Studies,
Geography or related areas, and postdocs and other professionals working
in related topics.  Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology, Natural
Science or related areas.

The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees
for other participants see the programme details (access link below)

Deadline for applications: May 31, 2017

Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to
lichenscourse@fc.ul.pt

For additional details about the course and to know how to
register, go to http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8 or
http://lichens.fc.ul.pt/

For more information about the course, please contact by email: Pedro
Pinho (paplopes@fc.ul.pt)

-----

Practical Course on Phylogeography

organized by Octavio Paulo| July 3-7 2017 @ Lisbon, Portugal

Objectives: Phylogeography is one of the recent scientific areas
emergent from the dissemination of highthrouput technologies of
sequencing starting in the 90's of the XXth century, with the consequent
development of intra-specific genetic variance analysis and its geographic
distribution. The analysis of phylogeographic data allows to study the
processes of population differentiation and the underlying evolutionary
and demographic history. Applications of this body of knowledge go from
conservation genetics to the study of the evolution of species and
populations. This course is aimed at students and professionals that
intend to get started on phylogeographic analysis as well as researchers
already with some experience that want to deepen or update their knowledge
in the field. The course involves theoretical classes as well as hands-on
practical sessions using software. Participants are encouraged to bring
their own sequence data for analysis.

Course instructor
Octavio Paulo (octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt)
Assistant Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of
Lisbon, researcher at the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes (cE3c - http://ce3c.fc.ul.pt/), Coordinator of the Computational
Biology & Population Genomics Group (http://cobig2.com)

Intended audience
This course will be open to a maximum number of 20 participants. 
Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology or related area. 

The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees
for other participants see the programme details (access link below).

Deadline for applications: June 9, 2017

Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to Octavio Paulo
(octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt)

For additional details about the programme of the course, fees and to
know how to register, click here, and access the specific course

http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

For more information about the course, please contact:
octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt

-----

Big Data - knowledge extraction from biological databases

Taught by Teresa Nogueira | July 10-14 2017

Objectives: This five days intensive course aims at familiarizing the
attendees with the unix environment and shell scripting. The participants
will develop and implement querying algorithms in order to generate
metadata for analysis.

Course instructor
Teresa Nogueira (teresainogueira@gmail.com) cE3c collaborator
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/teresa-nogueira)

Intended audience
This five days intensive course will be open to a maximum of 20
participants, being directed to PhD or MSc students, postdocs, and
professionals working in Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, Genetics
and related topics.  Minimum formation: bachelor degree in Biology,
Biochemistry or related areas.

The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees
for other participants see the programme details (access link below).

Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to Teresa Nogueira
(teresainogueira@gmail.com)

Deadline for applications: June 9, 2017

For additional details about the programme of the course, fees and to
know how to register, click here, and access the specific course

http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=8

For more information about the course, please contact:
teresainogueira@gmail.com

Margarida Matos <mmmatos@fc.ul.pt>

