GENOMIC BASIS OF CLIMATE ADAPTATION
A symposium hosted by Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research 
Centre, Frankfurt, Germany
January 17th to 18th 2018
Senckenberg Museum of Natural History in Frankfurt am Main
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Germany

Global warming and changing climatic conditions will require organisms 
to either track their climatic niche or rapidly adapt to new 
conditions.  Our understanding of the genomic basis underlying climate 
adaptation across various taxa is currently growing fast. We have so far 
learned about adaptive inversion clines, polygenic traits, the interplay 
of standing genetic variation and newly arising mutations, adaptation in 
symbiotic systems, and the role of adaptive introgression between 
species. These species-specific responses now raise more general 
scientific questions:
I)    Which processes and genomic features further or hinder adaptation?
II)    Are common patterns arising in terms of genes or pathways 
responding to climate stress selection? What are the relative roles of 
transcription changes versus structural changes?
III)    Which directions of research are promising for the future?
IV)    Which next generation sequencing techniques, and other methods, 
are most appropriate in the near future?
This symposium aims at bringing together leading scientists in the field 
to discuss recent results in genomic climate adaptation. Particularly, 
we want to integrate knowledge across disciplines (e.g. population 
genetics, molecular ecology/evolution, bioinformatics), and across taxa 
(e.g. plants, animals, fungi). Together, we want to identify open 
questions and promising methodology, and conceptually advance this 
scientifically and societally important field.

Confirmed keynote lecturers:
Outi Savolainen (University of Oulu, Finland)
Alan O. Bergland (University of Virginia, USA)

Confirmed plenary speakers:
Thomas Flatt (University Lausanne, Switzerland)
Robert Kofler (VetMedUni, Vienna, Austria)
Christian Rellstab (WSL, Zürich, Switzerland)
Thomas Bataillon (Aarhus University, Denmark)
Karl Schmid (University of Hohenheim, Germany)
Victoria Sork (University of California, USA)

Registration is now open:
http://www.bik-f.de/root/index.php?page_id=362&cms_veranstaltung_id=234

The organizers and scientific committee cordially invite you!

Markus Pfenninger (markus.pfenninger(q)senckenberg.de)
Imke Schmitt (imke.schmitt(q)senckenberg.de)
Barbara Feldmeyer (Barbara.Feldmeyer(q)senckenberg.de)
Ann-Marie Oppold (Ann-Marie.Oppold(q)senckenberg.de)

pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de

