SWISS INSTITUTE IN STATISTICAL GENETICS

     

MODULE 1 - BAYESIAN STATISTICS FOR GENETICS

WHERE? University of Lausanne
WHEN? 4-6 September 2017

ORGANIZERS: Prof. Jérôme Goudet (University of Lausanne - CH) &
Prof. Bruce Weir (University of Washington - US)

INSTRUCTORS: Prof. Jonathan Wakefield (University of Washington - US)
& Prof. Ken Rice (University of Washington - US)

INFO & REGISTRATION: https://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p28&uid350

DESCRIPTION: The use of Bayesian methods in genetics has a long
history. In this introductory module we will begin by discussing
introductory probability. We will then describe Bayesian approaches to
binomial proportions, multinomial proportions, two-sample comparisons
(binomial, Poisson, normal), the linear model, and Monte Carlo methods of
summarization. Advanced topics will be touched on, including hierarchical
models, generalized linear models, and missing data. Illustrative
applications will include: Hardy-Weinberg testing and estimation,
detection of allele-specific expression, QTL mapping, testing in
genome-wide association studies, mixture models, multiple testing in
high throughput genomics.

     

MODULE 2 - POPULATION GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS

WHERE? University of Lausanne
WHEN? 6-8 September 2017

ORGANIZERS: Prof. Jérôme Goudet (University of Lausanne - CH) &
Prof. Bruce Weir (University of Washington - US)

INSTRUCTORS: Prof. Jérôme Goudet (University of Lausanne - CH) &
Prof. Bruce Weir (University of Washington - US)

INFO & REGISTRATION: https://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p28&uid351

DESCRIPTION: A unified treatment for the analysis of discrete genetic
data, starting with estimates and sample variances of allele frequencies
to illustrate genetic vs statistical sampling and Bayesian approaches. A
detailed look at Hardy-Weinberg and linkage disequilibrium, including the
use of exact tests with mid-p-values and a new look at X-chromosome Hardy-
Weinberg testing. A new characterization of population structure with
F-statistics, based on allelic matching within and between populations
with individual relationship estimation as a special case. Analyses
illustrated with applications to forensic science and association mapping,
with particular reference to rare variants.

     

MODULE 3 - QUANTITATIVE GENETICS

WHERE? University of Lausanne
WHEN? 11-13 September 2017

ORGANIZERS: Prof. Jérôme Goudet (University of Lausanne - CH) &
Prof. Bruce Weir (University of Washington - US)

INSTRUCTORS: Prof. Bruce Walsh (University of Arizona - US) &
Prof. Guilherme J. M. Rosa (University of Wisconsin - US)

INFO & REGISTRATION: https://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p28&uid744

DESCRIPTION: Quantitative Genetics is the analysis of complex
characters where both genetic and environment factors contribute to
trait variation. Since this includes most traits of interest, such as
disease susceptibility, crop yield, growth and reproduction in animals,
human and animal behavior, and all gene expression data (transcriptome
and proteome), a working knowledge of quantitative genetics is critical
in diverse fields from plant and animal breeding, human genetics,
genomics, behavior, to ecology and evolutionary biology. The course
will cover the basics of quantitative genetics including: genetic basis
for complex traits, population genetic assumptions including detection
of admixture, Fisher's variance decomposition, covariance between
relatives, calculation of the numerator relationship matrix based on IBD
alleles and an arbitrary pedigree, the genomic relationship matrix based
on AIS alleles, heritability in the broad and narrow sense, inbreeding
and crossbreeding, and response to selection. Also an introduction to
advanced topics such as: Mixed Models, Best Linear Unbiased Prediction
(BLUP), Genomic selection (GBLUP), Genome Wide Association Analysis
(GWAS), QTL mapping, detection of selection from genomic data, correlated
characters; and the multivariate response to selection.

     

MODULE 4 - MIXED MODELS IN QUANTITATIVE GENETICS

WHERE? University of Lausanne
WHEN? 13-15 September 2017

ORGANIZERS: Prof. Jérôme Goudet (University of Lausanne - CH) &
Prof. Bruce Weir (University of Washington - US)

INSTRUCTORS: Prof. Bruce Walsh (University of Arizona - US) &
Prof. Guilherme J. M. Rosa (University of Wisconsin - US)

INFO & REGISTRATION: https://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p28&uid745

DESCRIPTION: "Mixed models" refers to the analysis of linear models
with arbitrary (co)variance structures among and within random effects
and may be due to such factors as relationships or shared environments,
cytoplasm, maternal effects and history. Mixed models are utilized in
complex data analysis where the usual assumption(s) of independence
and/or homogenous variances fail. Mixed models allow effects of nature
to be separated from those of nurture and are emerging as the default
method of analysis for human data. These issues are pervasive in human
studies due to the lack of ability to randomize subjects to households,
choice, and prior history. In plant breeding, growth and yield data are
correlated due to shared locations, but diminish by distance resulting in
spatial correlations. In animal breeding, performance data is correlated
because individuals maybe related and may share common material
environment as well as common pens or cages. Further, when individuals
share a common space, they may experience indirect genetics effects
(IGEs), which is an inherited effect in one individual experienced as
an environmental effect in an associated individual. The evolution of
cooperation and competition is based on IGEs, the estimation of which
require mixed model analysis. Detection of cytoplasmic and epigenetic
effects rely heavily on mixed model methods because of shared material
or parental histories. Topics to be discussed include a basic matrix
algebra review, the general linear model, derivation of the mixed
model, BLUP and REML estimation, estimation and design issues, Bayesian
formulations. Applications to be discussed include estimation of breeding
values and genetic variances in general pedigrees, association mapping,
genomic selection, spatial correlations and corrections, maternal genetic
effects, detecting selection from genomic data, admixture detection and
correction, direct and indirect genetic effects, models of general group
and kin selection, genotype by environment interaction models

     

QUERIES: caroline.betto-colliard@unil.ch

Caroline Betto-Colliard <caroline.betto-colliard@unil.ch>

