Subject: The Summer Workshop on Population-Scale Genomic Studies of
Environmental Stress (EnGen 2017),  July 8- July 15, with scholarships
still available

REGISTER SOON; scholarships and places are now very limited

Next-Generation Summer Course in Environmental Genomics at the Mount
Desert Island Biological Laboratory

A technical course that provides participants with the skills needed to
generate and analyze modern sequence data (DNA, RNA) through a hands-on
approach that utilizes novel data to guide research into how environmental
conditions affect gene responses and the fitness of organisms while
accounting for population structure.

Date: July 8- July 15, 2017.
Number of participants: Restricted to 25.
Only $300 registration fee!

We are pleased to announce that this course is now supported by the
National Institutes of Health through the Big Data To Knowledge (BD2K)
Program. Therefore, scholarships are available for US citizens or
permanent residents, including room and board.

https://mdibl.org/course/environmental-genomics/

Please contact John Colbourne (J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk) and Joe Shaw
(joeshaw@indiana.edu) if you are a non-US citizen or permanent resident
wanting to participate.

The faculty at MDI Biological Lab is pleased to again offer a training
course in Environmental Genomics, aiming to better understand technologies
and approaches used to discover how gene function is influenced by
environmental conditions while accounting for variation that exists
within and among natural populations. This course is built on the
paradigm that the research field will most effectively grow by properly
designing large-scale experiments enabled by drastically increased
sample-throughput and lower sequencing costs. Most importantly, the
bioinformatics challenges of manipulating and analyzing population-level
genomics data must be addressed.  

This course is designed to train the next-generation of environmental
scientists, which have included in past years: university professors,
postdoctoral researchers, doctoral students and government scientists,
representing institutions from North America and Europe. Most responded in
the departure survey that the course curriculum, choice of technologies,
and effectiveness provided sufficient training to either begin or enlarge
an environmental genomics project in their own laboratories. All reported
that they would recommend this course to a colleague.

  This course trains researchers to design studies, and to collect
and analyze RNA-Seq gene expression data. Daphnia is used for training
because of its growing use as a model system for environmental genomics
and for improving environmental health protection, yet the skills learned
during the course will be applicable to all study systems with maturing
genomics resources, including humans. Much time is devoted to guiding
the current and future projects of attendees.

  Ultimately, participants will be better positioned to incorporate
these technologies into their own research laboratories, while better
understanding how functional genomics and automation can be applied to
ecology, evolution and environmental toxicology. 

Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory
Old Bar Harbor Rd., Salisbury Cove, ME 04672
MDIBL - http://www.mdibl.org

j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk

