Hi,

As part of the Third BioSyst.EU meeting in Gothenburg, Sweden
(http://www.conferencemanager.se/BiosystEU2017/start.html)
from August 15th to 18th 2017 we organise a symposium on the
"Identification and avoidance of sources of error in phylogeny inference"
(http://www.conferencemanager.se/BiosystEU2017/identification-and-avoidance-of-sources-of-error-in-phylogeny-inference-gfbs.html).
The symposium is hosted by the German Society for Biological Systematics.

DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUBMISSION AND EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION: MAY 31, 2017

Phylogenetic tree reconstruction is a central task of modern evolutionary
biology, in which the assessment of phylogenetic relationships provides
the foundation for the interpretation of comparative and evolutionary
biological data. Molecular data for phylogenetic tree inference has
increased from single gene analyses of few taxa to phylogenomic analyses
comprising hundreds of genes and taxa. Due to the exponential growth
of molecular data along with reduced stochastic sampling errors, the
goal of approximating the "Tree of Life" seems to be more attainable
today than ever. However, although substantial progress has already been
achieved in respect of certain relationships within the "Tree of Life",
several phylogenetic questions still remain unresolved. Therefore,
the phylogenomic era appears also to be the beginning of an era of
strong incongruence due to the further accumulation of data affected by
systematic biases. These biases might arise from rate or compositional
heterogeneity, missing data or model misspecifications. In such cases,
phylogenetic methods may be inconsistent due to their inability
to sufficiently account for the evolutionary complexity of genomic
data. The consequence is strongly supported, but incorrectly resolved
phylogenetic trees.

In this symposium we want to discuss various reasons of systematic bias
and introduce new algorithms, which enable more reliable reconstructions
of large-scale phylogenetic trees or, equally important, will indicate
when reliable inferences are not possible given the currently available
data (e.g. the effect of incomplete lineage sorting and recombination
to phylogenetic reconstruction). Topics are discussed. Thereby, we put
a special emphasis on the potential and possible pitfalls of recent
supertree, coalescence, and supermatrix approaches. The two invited
and renowned keynote speakers, John Gatesy and Mark Wilkinson, address
their points of view concerning these methodologies. The titles of their
talks are:

John Gatesy (Institute for Comparative Genomics & University of California
Riverside): A single outlier gene tree can overturn hundreds of perfectly
congruent gene trees in phylogenetic coalescence analyses Mark Wilkinson
(Natural History Museum London): Supertrees, supermatrices and pluralism
in phylogenenetics (Co-author will be Peter G. Foster)

However, we are also very interested in contribution by others. Therefore,
if you have a topic fitting this venue in a general sense and not
only concerning supertree, coalescence, and supermatrix debate you are
invited to come to the conference and present your work as a talk or
a poster. We especially invite students at this conference is a good
opportunity to get in contact with your fellows working on the same
subject and show-cast your work to a diverse and interested international
audience. Presentations from a purely theoretical perspective, which
can initiate new research in known or yet unrecognized biases, are
also welcome.

The BioSyst website above has detailed information on registration,
submission procedures, symposia and their speaker as well as travelling
and accommodation.

We hope to see you in Gothenburg,

Patrick & Torsten.

- NEW CONTACT INFORMATION -
Torsten Hugo Struck
Department of Research and Collections
Natural History Museum
phone: +47-228-51740
e-mail: t.h.struck@nhm.uio.no

Torsten Hugo Struck <t.h.struck@nhm.uio.no>

