2nd Evolution in Cognition Workshop
to be held as part of the

2017 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO-2017)
 July 15-19, Berlin, Germany

Organized by ACM SIGEVO
  http://gecco-2017.sigevo.org

Webpage: https://sites.google.com/champlain.edu/eic2017/
 Submission Deadline: March 31st, 2017

=== Topic =Evolution by natural selection has shaped life over billions
of years leading to the emergence of complex organism capable of
exceptional cognitive abilities. These natural evolutionary processes
have inspired the development of Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), which
are optimization algorithms widely popular due to their efficiency and
robustness. Beyond their ability to optimize, EAs have also proven to
be creative and efficient at generating innovative solutions to novel
problems. The combination of these two abilities makes them a tool of
choice for the resolution of complex problems.

There is evidence that the principle of selection on variation is at play
in the human brain, as proposed in Changeux's and Edelman's models of
Neuronal Darwinism, and more recently properly reformulated in the theory
of the Neuronal Replicators. Consequently, the idea of an interaction
between evolutionary processes and cognition over physiological time
scales has been gaining some traction. Since the development of human
cognition requires years of maturation, it can be expected that artificial
cognitive agents will also require months if not years of learning and
adaptation. It is in this context that the optimizing and creative
abilities of EAs could become an ideal framework that complement,
aid in understanding, and facilitate the implementation of cognitive
processes. Additionally, a better understanding of how evolution can be
implemented as part of an artificial cognitive architecture can lead to
new insights into cognition in humans and other animals.

The goals of the workshop are to depict the current state of the art
of evolution in cognition and to sketch the main challenges and future
directions. In particular, we aim at bringing together the different
theoretical and empirical approaches that can potentially contribute to
the understanding of how evolution and cognition can act together in an
algorithmic way in order to solve complex problems. In this workshop
we welcome approaches that contribute to an improved understanding of
evolution in cognition using robotic agents, in silico computation as
well as mathematical models.

Keywords: Evolutionary Computation, Evolution, Cognition, Darwinian
Neurodynamics, Neuronal Darwisnism, robotics.

=== Invited speakers =  -       Prof. Eors Szathmary
        -       Additional invited speakers will be announced in the near future.

=== Organizers =        -       Prof. Stephane Doncieux, University
Pierre and Marie Curie, France
        -       Dr. Joshua Auerbach, Champlain Collegeâ euro ¨
        -       Prof. Richard Duro, Universidade da Coruna, Spain -
        Dr. Harold P. de Vladar, iASK  Institute of Advanced Studies
        KÅ'szeg, Hungary

=== Submissions and deadlines =Accepted submissions:
        -       Original: experimental work, position papers as well as
                overviews of author's recent work are all welcome. These
                submissions will be included in the proceedings and be
                presented during the workshop
        -       Abstracts submitted as poster to GECCO 2017: the authors
                of selected abstracts will be given a talk. The abstract
                won't be included in the proceedings.
        -       Hot-of-the-press: authors can submit a recently
                published work. Selected articles will be given a talk.

Submission: extended abstracts (2-4 pages) and long papers (8 pages)
are accepted. They should follow ACM template and should be sent in
electronic form (pdf) to eic_ws@isir.upmc.fr:

        -       March, 31st, 2017: Papers Submission Deadline
        -       April, 14th, 2017: Notification of Acceptance
        -       April, 21th, 2016: Camera-Ready Paper Submission
        -       July 15 or 16th, 2017: Workshop

GECCO is sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery Special
Interest Group on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation (SIGEVO). SIG
Services: 2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701, New York, NY, 10121, USA,
1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada) or +212-626-0500 (Global).

Stephane Doncieux, Josh Auerbach, Richard Duro and Harold P. de Vladar

Dr. Harold P. de Vladar
Senior Researcher

Centre for Cooperation and Conflict in Evolutionary Systems
iASK  Institute of Advanced Studies KÅ'szeg
Chernel utca 14
H-9730 KÅ'szeg
Hungary

hpvladar.wordpress.com
www.iask.hu/en
www.parmenides-foundation.org

harold.vladar@parmenides-foundation.org
