***OUR WEBSITE IS WORKING PROPERLY AGAIN***

We had a few issues with our website which are now resolved and all
information on our workshop can be found via the following link:
http://rolffevolution.net/ecological-immunology-workshop-2017/

Ecological Immunology Workshop 2017 on:

'Insect immunity: genomics, microbiome, applications'

28th August to 1st September 2017 in Blossin (close to Berlin), Germany.

This workshop will bring together researchers interested in ecological
immunology with a focus on insects, and with diverse scientific
backgrounds ranging from molecular biology to ecology. The hallmark
of these workshops, started in 2001, is the open atmosphere fostering
free exchange by keeping it an affordable, small conference (100
participants). The format consists of eighteen invited speakers,
contributed talks and a dedicated poster. Long breaks provide plenty
of opportunity for informal exchange. Past workshops have initiated new
collaborations and ideas focusing on frontier research that has not been
published. The premises are basic but in a beautiful location conducive
to the success of the meeting. We will be located at a lakeside, which
at this time of the year offers great swimming and canoeing, and a small
private bar at the harbour [http://www.blossin.de].

Registration fee includes accommodation and catering (all meals):
https://goo.gl/forms/Rtz3ngliH3ZnGvyD2

Important dates
The deadline for abstract submission of oral and poster presentations
is 28th February 2017 Registration closes at the latest on 31st March
2017 or when the maximum number or possible participants is reached,
i.e. 100 persons.  Final programme announcement is 31st July 2017.

Program and invited speakers

Genomics and functional work in the wild 
Seth Barribeau, University of Liverpool
Nicole Gerardo, Emory University
Brian Lazzaro, Cornell University
Hinrich Schulenburg, University of Kiel
Ann Tate, University of Texas
Lumi Viljakainen, University of Oulu
Chris Wheat, University of Stockholm

Host-symbiont interactions affecting host immunity 
Nichole Broderick, University of Connecticut
Ewa Chrostek, MPI Infection Biology
Ellen Decaesteker, University of Leuven
Abdelaziz Heddi, INSA-Lyon
Martin Kaltenpoth, University of Mainz
David Schneider, Stanford University

Applying ecological immunology 
Lena Bayer-Wilfert, University of Essex
Astrid Groot, University of Amsterdam
Dino McMahon, Free University Berlin
Brian Weiss, Yale University
Ken Wilson, University of Lancaster

We are looking forward to welcoming you at the Ecological Immunology
Workshop 2017.

Kind regards,

Organizing Committee
Jens Rolff, Free University of Berlin
Oliver Otti, University of Bayreuth
Paul Schmid-Hempel, ETH Zurich
Magdalena Nagel, Free University of Berlin

If you have any questions concerning the meeting please do not
hesitate to e-mail us: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de (program)
magdalena.nagel@fu-berlin.de (travel and registration)

Dr. Oliver Otti
Animal Population Ecology
Animal Ecology I
University of Bayreuth
Universitätsstrasse 30
95440 Bayreuth
Germany

phone: +49921552646
e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de

Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de>

