microMORPH& Arnold Arboretum Summer Course 2017 - Plant Anatomy:
Development, Function, and Evolution

Thistwo-week short course (July 30th - August 12th, 2017) will be taught
by experts from around the world as an intense lecture, laboratory,
and living collections learning experience. The course will be based
at the Weld Hill Research Building at the Arnold Arboretum in Boston
(Massachusetts), which offers a state-of-the-art microscopy laboratory
for teaching and sits amid the 15,000+ living specimens of more than
2,200 species at the Arnold Arboretum.

Thiscourse will provide a working knowledge of tools and concepts that
are central to understanding the anatomical basis for structural and
functional diversity. Topics include the anatomy of the primary plant
body, anatomy throughout plant development, evolutionary trends in plant
anatomy, and the anatomy and diversity of secondary/woody growth. Each day
will consist of lecture and laboratory sessions, with ample opportunity
to explore the Arnold Arboretum.

Thereare no course fees, and funds are available to help defray costs
of participant travel.

CourseInstructors: Pieter Baas (Naturalis Biodiversity Center), Pamela
Diggle (University of Connecticut), William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard
University), Peter Gasson (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew), Cynthia Jones
(University of Connecticut), Elisabeth Wheeler (North Carolina State
University).

ApplicationDeadline: Applications must be submitted by 11:30 pm April
15th, 2017. Application instructions are available on the course website:
http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph/summer-course-2017

Eligibility:microMORPH summer short courses are open to postdoctoral
researchers, graduate students, and undergraduates in their final year
of study (who have been admitted to a graduate or professional program
for the fall of 2017). Non-US-citizens are welcome to apply (but are
responsible for obtaining the appropriate visa to be able to attend
the course).

Howto Apply: For full application instructions (including list of required
documents) and to submit applications, please visit the microMORPH website
(http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).

Questionsor Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at RCNmicromorph@gmail.com,
and visit our website at http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph.

PamelaDiggle

Professor
Departmentof Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Universityof Connecticut

860-486-4788

pamela.diggle@uconn.edu

