Dear Evoldir members,

you or your students and postdocs or even family members and friends might
be interested in a new free online course for anyone who wants to learn
about biodiversity science or help protect biodiversity.

Prof. Owen Petchey and I (Susanne Schulmeister) have created a Massive Open
Online Course (MOOC) called "Biodiversity and Global Change: Science &
Action". It is produced by the University of Zurich in Switzerland and
offered by Coursera.

The 42 short video lectures are about biodiversity, biodiversity science,
global change including climate change, and conservation, and are taught by
24 scientists of the University of Zurich. So this course is also a good
way to get informed about some of the research being done in the Department
of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies (IEU) of UZH.

Watching the videos and doing the assessments is free. This is called
auditing the course. If you want to take part in the two assignments and
get a certificate at the end of the course, there is a small fee.

The official launch of our MOOC is February 27. This is when the course
material will become visible to enrolled participants and when we want the
learners to start introducing themselves. The first session of the course
begins March 6 and ends April 30 (though you could take it at a different
pace).

It takes about 1-2 hours per week to watch the videos and to do the
assessments and assignments. All videos and course materials are in
English. Videos have subtitles in English and can be viewed at slower (or
faster) speed if desired.

You can find more information and sign up for the course here:
https://www.coursera.org/learn/biodiversity/ -- first register for
Coursera, then enroll for the course.

Feel free to contact me via email to susanne.schulmeister (at) ieu.uzh.ch

On a personal note: since my engagement with this project will end at the
end of June, I am currently looking for future employment. I am interested
in project management of research or eLearning (= online teaching)
projects, mainly in my favorite topics biology, climate change, health
(medical science), and nutrition and am happy to act as consultant on MOOC
projects. I am open to relocating to different parts of the world   :-)

Cheers,

Susanne

Dr. Susanne Schulmeister
University instructor and project manager
University of Zurich
Department of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies

suzanne123@gmail.com

