Training course on Viral Bioinformatics and Genomics
MRC - University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research, United Kingdom

Monday 7th - Friday 11th August 2017
Application deadline 30th April 2017
Cost 500

We will be running our Viral Bioinformatics and Genomics course again
this year, from Monday 7th August to Friday 11th August. Applications
for the course are now open, full details on the course and information
on how to apply can be found at: www.bioinformatics.cvr.ac.uk

The 5-day course consists of a series of lectures and practical
exercises that directly address bioinformatics challenges posed by the
current surge of sequence data, with a focus on viral data sets and
analyses. We will enable participants to understand and deal with high-
throughput sequence datasets and encourage the exchange of ideas among
diagnosticians, virologists, bioinformaticians and evolutionary
biologists.

The 2017 course will introduce participants to the power of the UNIX command-
line and bash scripts, as well as a suite of bioinformatics tools
covering the following topics:

- HTS sequencing technologies: overview of the different HTS platforms
  and sample preparations.
- The power of Unix: essential bash scripting.
- Reference assembly: aligning sequence reads to a known reference and
  visualizing the alignment (e.g. bowtie2, BWA, Tanoti, Tablet, UGENE).
- Variant calling: consensus sequence generation, low frequency variant
  calling and error correction (e.g. samtools, LoFreq, DiversiTools).
- De-novo assembly: overlap layout and de Bruijn graphs approaches for
  sequence assembly, quality assessment and merging contigs (e.g. ABySS,
  SPAdes, MIRA, IDBA-UD, QUAST, Mauve).
- Metagenomic analyses: sanitizing sequence datasets, assembling,
  annotating, visualizing (e.g. MetAMOS, Krona, DIAMOND, Kraken).
- Genomics: scaffolding, improving and finishing the assembly, gene
  annotation (e.g. ICORN, Artemis, RATT).
- Phylogenetic analysis: introduction to multiple sequence alignment and
  phylogenetic reconstruction (e.g. mafft, PhyML, FigTree).

The course will be held at the Centre for Virus Research, Garscube
Campus, University of Glasgow, UK. The CVR has been designated an World
Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) Collaborating Centre for Viral
Genomics and Bioinformatics at the 82nd OIE General Session. 

www.bioinformatics.cvr.ac.uk

Dr. Richard Orton
117 Sir Michael Stoker Building
MRC - University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research
464 Bearsden Road
Glasgow
G61 1QH

E: Richard.Orton@glasgow.ac.uk
T: 0141 330 4019

Richard Orton <Richard.Orton@glasgow.ac.uk>

