Ninety-Seventh Meeting of the
AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MAMMALOGISTS
20-24 June 2017
University of Idaho ­ Moscow

This year¹s meeting will offer an exciting program with three workshops,
three symposia, and two plenary sessions, in addition to the diversity of
high-quality contributed papers and posters. Workshops will provide
training in the program ³R², ways to increase your Broader Impacts, and
writing an effective DDIG proposal. Symposia will include current topics
in Climate Change, Large Mammal Ecophysiology, and Genomics. The two
plenary sessions will feature student Honoraria and Fellowship recipients
and the 2016 recipients of the ASM Grinnell, Leopold, and Merriam
Awards‹Drs. Joseph Cook, Marco Festa-Bianchet, and Joel Brown. And we are
honored to have Dr. Kay Holekamp, a previous Merriam awardee, as our
capstone speaker, presenting her life¹s work on hyena ecology and behavior.

ABSTRACT SUBMISSION OPENS TODAY!!!
Share your research with hundreds of mammalogists from around the world.
Submit your abstract for an oral presentation or poster for ASM 2017!
Abstract submissions will open on February 15, 2017 and close on March 31,
2017 at 11:59 pm (Central Daylight Time). The deadline for presenters
seeking Travel Awards is March 15th at 11:59 pm (Central Daylight Time).
For more information about ASM Travel Awards see the ASM website
(http://www.mammalsociety.org/committees/honoraria-and-travel-awards#tab4).

All presenters MUST register and submit full payment for the conference
prior to submitting their abstract. The abstract submission link will be
found in the email confirmation immediately following payment. However,
please allow enough time for the automated registration system to process
your payment to meet the submission deadline. An abstract will not be
accepted for the program until the presenting author has registered and
paid in full.

REGISTER FOR THE CONFERENCE
Registration is now open for ASM 2017! Register online
(https://asm.wildapricot.org/event-2367009/Registration) now! Contact
Christy Classi (cclassi@mammalsociety.org) for assistance. Regular
registration ends March 31st!!!

For those also considering the Evolution meeting in nearby Portland, why
choose? ASM 2017 is providing a low-cost transportation option to allow
attendance at both meetings. For $50, ASM 2017 attendees can take a
charter bus from Moscow to Portland on Friday, June 24th, arriving just in
time for evening festivities at Evolution 2017. This option is available
during registration. The bus is partially sponsored by RTLGenomics
(http://rtlgenomics.com).

RESERVE YOUR ROOM AND MAKE TRAVEL PLANS FOR ASM 2017
Housing: A variety of housing options are available this year, including
campus dorm housing. Reservations should be made before the end of May for
most housing options. Be sure to reference the American Society of
Mammalogists to receive the conference group rate at the meeting hotels.
Check out the meeting travel page (http://www.mammalmeetings.org/travel/)
for more information!

Transportation: You have multiple options when traveling to Moscow, Idaho.
The three closest airports to the Moscow area are the Pullman-Moscow
Regional Airport, the Lewiston-Nez Perce County Regional Airport, and the
Spokane International Airport. Each airport offers various car rental
options. There also are several options for travel from each airport to
the hotels ranging from taxis and shuttles to public transportation. To
research the method that best suits you, please visit each airport¹s
website. Moscow also is serviced by Greyhound and Amtrak.

For more information, visit the ASM meeting website
(http://www.mammalmeetings.org/).

Contact Info:
Tony Ballard
Kansas State Global Campus
Phone: 785-532-2402
Email: tballard@k-state.edu

Cody Thompson <mammal.meetings@gmail.com>

