Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park, London NW1 4RY, UK;
Tuesday 14 March 2017; 18:00-21:00

Immigrants to the rescue! How can immigration help save threatened
wildlife populations?

Speakers: Richard Frankham; Mike Bruford; Jane Reid

Threatened species have invariably small and frequently isolated
populations, and are thus characterized by increased inbreeding and
depleted genetic variation.  Increased inbreeding could lead to a
reduction in reproduction and survival (inbreeding depression), which
causes an immediate risk of extinction. Depleted genetic variation
could compromise the ability of a species to adapt to an ever-changing
environment, threatening its long-term survival.  How to mitigate these
adverse effects of small populations, and maintain a threatened species
for short- and long-term survival, is a major task for conservation
science.  Supplementing genetically impoverished populations with
external unrelated individuals (immigrants) can be a valuable strategy
to counteract the negative effects of isolation.  This 'genetic rescue'
effect occurs because the addition of unrelated genomes increases
diversity in the recipient population, reducing inbreeding and inbreeding
depression. Genetic rescue has the added benefit of increasing population
size and larger populations are less vulnerable to random events, such as
a natural disaster or disease outbreak.  Despite the potential benefits
of genetic rescue for the management of threatened species, there have
been fewer than twenty published studies of genetic rescue/restoration
for conservation purposes.  Why has there been such a low uptake?

The speakers will describe the hurdles, and illustrate how
genetic rescue can be expedited through reintroduction
and conservation programmes. Free and open to all
https://www.zsl.org/science/whats-on/immigrants-to-the-rescue-how-can-immigration-help-save-threatened-wildlife

The Zoological Society of London is incorporated by Royal Charter
Principal Office England. Company Number RC000749
Registered address: 
Regent's Park, London, England NW1 4RY
Registered Charity in England and Wales no. 208728 

Linda DaVolls <linda.davolls@zsl.org>

