Topic: Moscow. 4^th International Meeting on Invertebrates. August
18-23.

Dear Evolutionary Biologists!

On behalf of The International Society for Invertebrate Morphology,
Lomonosov Moscow State University, The Paleontological Institute of
Russian Academy of Sciences and The ICIM4 Organizing Committee, we
cordially invite you to attend the 4th International Congress on
Invertebrate Morphology (ICIM4) to be held in August 18-23, 2017 in
Moscow, Russia.

The Congress, which is the premier international gathering of
researchers in the field of the morphology of invertebrates, will be
hosted by Lomonosov Moscow State University. The main focus of the 4th
Congress  will be among others on evolutionary developmental biology;
the problem of miniaturization and the evolution of larval forms.
Special attention will be paid to modern approaches and methods of
morphological and evolutionary studies.

You can find a preliminary list of the scientific symposia (included
but not limited to) at http://www.icim4.com/symposia-structure  to be
chosen according to your interests.

TO REGISTER please follow the link http://www.icim4.com/registration .
The early-bird registration fee rates are available until February 28,
2017.

The abstract submission is open until April 30, 2017. To submit an
abstract please follow the link http://www.icim4.com/abstracts

For more information on the Congress please visit the official website
of the ICIM4 at www.icim4.com

We would also like to invite those of you who might be interested to be
a Sponsor or an Information Partner of the Congress. For Sponsorship
please see the link http://www.icim4.com/sponsors-exhibitors and for
Information Partnership please contact the Technical Secretariat at
icim4@mkcongress.ru .

Please do not hesitate to contact congress organizers and our
organizing committee with any concerns or questions:

E-mail:  icim4.org@gmail.com  (for program, papers and other
science-related questions and issues)

E-mail: icim4@mkcongress.ru (for registration, payments, excursions,
pre- and post-congress tours, accommodation and other service-related
questions and issues)

Looking forward to seeing you in Moscow!

Technical Secretariat of the 4th International Congress on Invertebrate
Morphology

MKC LLC Moscow, Russia

Phone: +7 (495) 726 5135

e-mail: icim4@mkcongress.ru

http://www.icim4.com/

 --
 Thank you and best regards,

 Yana Syskova
 ICIM4, Technical Secretariat
 "MKC" LLC
 Moscow, Russia
 Phone: +7 (495) 726 5135
 icim4@mkcongress.ru
 www.icim4.com

"ICIM4, Technical secretariat" <icim4@mkcongress.ru>

