Dear Evolutionary Biology Community,

Sign up to give a lightning talk in a "Spotlight Session" at the 2017
Evolution Meetings in Portland, Oregon!

Spotlight Session -- "Genetic transmission at the population level"

The transmission of genes between parents and offspring is a critical
feature of biological populations. In this spotlight session, talks
will explore the modes whereby genes are transmitted across generations
and their evolutionary relevance. Topics include, but are not limited
to, meiotic drive systems, organelle and nuclear genomes, mating
systems, and genetic conflict. We hope you will join us to learn more
about the intriguing diversity, evolution, and macro-evolutionary
consequences of genetic transmission systems.

Invited speakers

Yaniv Brandvain, University of Minnesota. Title: TBD

Jeremiah Busch, Washington State University. Title: TBD

Lila Fishman, University of Montana. Title: TBD

Logistical details on the session:

A Spotlight Session is a focused, 75 min. collection of talks on a
specific topic. These talks are solicited in advance, unlike regular
sessions that are assembled, often imperfectly, from the total pool of
contributed talks. Each Spotlight Session is anchored by three leading
experts (each giving a 14 min talk) and rounded out with six selected
speakers (each giving a 5 min. 'lightning' talk) pursing exciting
projects in the same field. By having a focused session with
high-profile researchers on a specific topic, there will be high value
in presenting even a 5 min. talk as the room is likely to contain the
desired target audience as well as other relevant and well-known
speakers in the field.

To take part:

If you want to give a lightning talk in this session, please email me
at jwbusch@wsu.edu with your title by February 28th!  We hope to choose
all of the six lightning talks by March 3rd.

Impacts on registration, etc.:
1)  If you are selected to give a talk in our Spotlight Session, you
are free to give a regular talk in another, traditional session. You
can register for another talk by the standard procedure during the
online registration process.

2)  As a member of the Spotlight Session, you will attend the meeting
as normal but you will NOT register your talk in the Spotlight Session
on the website -- I will take care of this for you.

--

Jeremiah W. Busch

School of Biological Sciences

Washington State University

Pullman, WA 99164

jwbusch@wsu.edu

509-335-0086

"Jeremiah W. Busch" <jwbusch@wsu.edu>

