Dear Colleagues,

We are please to announce that this year the seventh DNA Metabarcoding
Spring School will held in Porto (Portugal) and will be organized
in collaboration with Simon Jarman and the CBIO Research Center in
Biodiversity and Genetic resources.

Please take care than this year the registration period will end by
March the 15th,  2017.

http://metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article85

Best regards

Eric Coissac

Dr Eric Coissac
Associate professor
Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine
UMR UGA-USMB-CNRS 5553
Université Grenoble Alpes 
CS 40700  38058 Grenoble cedex 9  -France

The seventh DNA metabarcoding Spring School at Porto

DNA metabarcoding is a rapidly evolving method for assessing
biodiversity from environmental DNA and bulk samples. It has a wide
range of applications: biodiversity monitoring, animal diet assessment,
reconstruction of paleo communities, among others. DNA metabarcoding
uses molecular techniques such as PCR and next generation sequencing,
and integrates skills in bioinformatics and biostatistics with classical
ecological knowledge.

The DNA metabarcoding spring school is now in its seventh edition, and
this year it is co-organized by the metabarcoding.org team and the CIBIO
at Porto - Portugal

The DNA metabarcoding spring school will be held
from May 1st to 5th, 2017

The school will be divided in two parts:

	- Two days of lectures, May 1st and 2nd.
	- Three days of practicals

All the lectures and the practicals will be taught in English
The number of participants in the lecture portion is not limited, but
registration is mandatory.

The number of participants in the practical portion is limited to 24.

Candidates can apply for the school by sending an email to the following
address :

		porto2017@metabarcoding.org

The email must contain a brief curriculum vitae and a short letter
of motivation. For applicants wishing to participate in the practical
sessions, we request a more complete letter indicating how your research
will benefit from DNA metabarcoding and what you are hoping to learn from
this school. As part of the course, each participant in the practical
portion will give a flash talk (5 minutes) about your research and how
it is related to DNA metabarcoding.

Main lecturers

	- Frédéric Boyer (LECA, CNRS, France)
	- Antony Chariton (Makerere University, Australia)
	- Eric Coissac (LECA, UGA, France)
	- Bruce Deagle (Australian Antarctic Division - Australia)
	- Simon Jarman (CIBIO, Portugal)
	- Pierre Taberlet (LECA, CNRS, France)
	- Lucie Zinger (EDB, CNRS, France)

Course Schedule

The lectures will cover different aspects of DNA metabarcoding. The
bioinformatics practicals will introduce data analysis from raw sequences
to basic ecological conclusions. The molecular ecology practical
will present basic techniques for DNA extraction in the field and DNA
amplification by PCR.

Venue

The meeting will be held at the Parque Biológico de Gaia (41°05'49.5"N
8°33'21.9"W):

		http://www.parquebiologico.pt/doc.php?id=141

This location has accommodation for all participants in rooms with 2,4 or
6 beds (c.a 20 euro  per night and per person). The venue has a lecture hall
and conference rooms to be used for the course. Breakfast and lunch will
be available on site (16 euro  per person per day for both) while dinner
will be arranged at nearby local restaurants for approximately 20 euro 
per person per day. Vegetarian options will be available for all meals.

To get there:

For attendees arriving on the 31st April, the Porto DNA metabarcoding team
will collect you from the airport. If you are arriving earlier in Porto,
there are several public transport options. The most direct way to get
to Porto is to fly to the Francisco Sa Carneiro International Airport:

		http://www.porto-airport.com/

Direct flight are available from more than fifty cities. This airport
is serviced by a range of airlines including TAP, Ryanair and EasyJet.

Porto also has regular, low cost train connections to Lisbon and a
range of other Portuguese destinations as well as Vigo and Madrid in
Spain. More information can be found here:

https://www.cp.pt/passageiros/en/train-times/Stations/porto-campanha
Porto has an efficient Metro light rail service:

		http://en.metrodoporto.pt/

that can be used to travel from the airport or train stations to Santo
Ovidio station, which is the closest one to the venue. From there a taxi
or Uber will take you to the venue.

For some country Portugal requires a Schenguen entry visa, arranged
before travel.

Eric Coissac <eric.coissac@inria.fr>

