BioGenomics 2017

First day registration is now available for the inaugural Global
Biodiversity Genomics Conference held in Washington, D.C. 21-23
February 2017 at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History
organized by the Smithsonian Initiative on Biodiversity Genomics and BGI.
The conference will bring together thought leaders, researchers, and
academics, who are leading the charge in applying genomic technologies
to understanding life. The Conference is one of the first to address
the transition from a scientific emphasis on human genomics to one on
global biodiversity genomics.

The first day will feature a Keynote Address by Edward O. Wilson,
Professor Emeritus, from Harvard University entitled: The Linnaean
Renaissance.

The meeting will focus on interactions and synergies among biodiversity
researchers, computational scientists, sequencing technologists, and
software developers.

The overarching goal of BioGenomics 2017 is to increase our knowledge of
the patterns of genomic variation in order to enhance our understanding
of past and present evolutionary processes, to interpret the functional
meaning of differences among genomes of individuals and species, to
discover and document how ecosystems operate, and to use this information
to make predictive management decisions about the future of life on our
planet. The Conference is focused on four basic themes:

Diversity Genomics:  Origins, Diversity, and Patterns of Life Evolutionary
Genomics:  Adaptation, Resilience, and Evolutionary Novelty Ecological
Genomics:  Ecosystem Function and Ecological Processes Conservation
Genomics:  Environmental Sustainability and Conservation

The first day will also feature:

Pamela Soltis (The Role of Whole-Genome Duplication in Plant Evolution)

Gene Robinson (Gene Regulatory Network Lability and the Evolution of
Insect Society)

Byrappa Venkatesh(Diversity of Fish Genomes)

Nancy Moran (Discovering the world of microbial symbiosis using genomics)

Thomas Gilbert (Palaeogenomic contributions to domestication)

Harris A. Lewin (Eutherian Chromosomes in the Light of Evolution)

May Berenbaum (Ecological genomics footprints of plant-insect
coevolution in the CYPome)

Christina Richards (Understanding mechanisms of response to complex
environmental conditions using model and non-model plants)

Jeffrey Good (Climate change and the evolution of seasonal camouflage)

Oliver Ryder (The impact of conservation genomics on genetic rescue of
endangered species: the critical role of viable cell collections)

Robert Wayne (The Measurement of Adaptive and Deleterious Variation as
Goals for Conservation Genomics)

Andrew Clark (Genomic Consequences of Population Decline in the Endangered
Florida Scrub-Jay)

Registration for Day 1 or for the complete conference is available at:
http://biogenomics2017.org/

along with other details of the conference.

Please direct questions to Warren Johnson at: contactbiogenomics@si.e

JohnsonWE@si.edu

