We are pleased to announce that we will be hosting a Special Symposium
entitled 'Optimizing connectivity in running waters: lessons,
challenges and tools' at the forthcoming American Fisheries Society
Annual Meeting to be held in Tampa (Florida) on Aug 20-24, 2017.

This symposium will explore the problems posed by stream fragmentation,
the pressures on freshwater ecosystems, and the need for innovative
solutions to restore river connectivity. Nearly all major world rivers
have become disconnected from the sea and this has had a catastrophic
impact on many species, including some iconic migratory fish such as
salmon or eels that have in some cases become extinct. For example, in
the Netherlands and Germany barriers along the River Rhine prevent the
migration of salmon, sturgeon and shad, while in the Iberian Peninsula
salmon has disappeared from all but a handful of rivers. River
fragmentation can result in rapid evolution of ecotypic differentiation
and reproductive isolation of natural fish populations, but can also
work as a measure of control of invasive species. We propose to review
lessons learned from effort to improve connectivity, the challenges
that lay ahead, and the novel tools that have emerged in recent years.

The AFS meeting is one of the largest dedicated fish conferences in the
world, and covers virtually every conceivable topic related to fish and
fisheries, typically with many sessions running in parallel, see here
https://afsannualmeeting.fisheries.org/

If you are interested in presenting a talk or poster at the Symposium,
you need to:

1. Send us a title and author list by March 10th

2. Submit an abstract by March 17. See
https://afs.confex.com/afs/2017/cfp.cgi.

We look forward to hearing from you.

Symposium conveners,

Sonia Consuegra, Swansea University, UK (s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk)

Carlos Garcia de Leaniz, Swansea University, UK
(c.garciadeleaniz@swansea.ac.uk)

Guillermo Giannico, Oregon State University, US
(giannico@oregonstate.edu)

"Consuegra S." <s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk>

