NERC-MDIBL Environmental Genomics and Metabolomics Training Course 2017

A NERC funded short course to guide genomics and metabolomics research
applied to environmental sciences

http://www.birmingham.ac.uk/schools/biosciences/conferences/mdibl-course/

Date: 5-10 March 2017
Location: The University of Birmingham, UK

Number of places: up to 50
Participation: Open to everyone.
Priority is given to NERC-funded PhD students and early-career
scientists. Confirmation for attendance will be announced February
23, 2017.

Bursaries: Four (4) bursaries are still available for the metabolomics
track and two (2) remain for the genomics track, covering registration,
travel and accommodations.

Costs for non-NERC funded researchers: Early bird 2105, standard
2340. Ten scholarships remain in the genomics track, where registration
fees are waived.

Course leaders: Professor John Colbourne, Dr Joseph Shaw, and Dr Ben
Brown will lead the genomics course. The metabolomics course will be
lead by Professor Mark Viant and Dr Warwick Dunn and assisted by staff
from the NERC Biomolecular Analysis Facility and Birmingham Metabolomics
Training Facility.

Research Organizations involved: University of Birmingham (UK), BGI
China National GeneBank (Shenzhen, China), Mount Desert Island Biological
Laboratory (USA)

For this fourth annual training course in Environmental Genomics and
Metabolomics, the curriculum is expanded to highlight a multi-omics
(system biology) approach to research in environmental sciences. It trains
PhD students and early career postdoctoral scientists to investigate
how gene function and metabolism are influenced by environmental
conditions while accounting for variation that exists within and among
natural populations. The course is built on the paradigm that this
multidisciplinary research field encompassing ecology, evolution,
toxicology, biostatistics and informatics will most effectively grow
by training early career environmental scientists to properly design
comprehensive, large-scale, Next Generation Sequencing and Metabolomics
experiments enabled by drastically increased sample-throughput and lower
costs. Most importantly, the challenges of manipulating and analysing
population-level omics (big) data must be addressed.

The course provides a significant introduction and much hands-on training
experience so that participants can initiate their own environmental
omics study and network with others in the field to launch Environmental
Scientist careers in academia and industry. Case studies using multi-omics
data sets collected at the University of Birmingham will be provided
so that you can gain practical experience of analysing and integrating
multi-omics data.

Daphnia is used for training because of its growing use as a model system
in the environmental sciences and for improving environmental health
protection, yet the skills learned during the course will be applicable
to all study systems with mature genomics and metabolomics resources.

Evening Lecture Series
Distinguished visiting academics will provide keynote lectures on each
day of the course to highlight environmental omic applications that draw
on the expertise of our guest faculty.

Course Details
The course will include ~1.5 days of generic environmental omics training
and ~3.5 days of specialised genomics or metabolomics training (parallel
tracks).

The combined sessions will include:
* Overviews of environmental genomics and metabolomics
* Practical experience of analysing and integrating multi-omics data
* Synthesis sessions to obtaining grant funding
* Question and answer sessions with a panel of experts

The genomics track includes:
* Library construction methods and QC
* Introduction to automation systems and sequence data workflow
* Software solutions for sequence workflows and their application in
  environmental research
* RNA-seq alignment
* Statistical considerations for analysing genome-scale data
* Practical experience in applying open-source analysis tools to
  visualise complex sequence data and explore genome sequence variation,
  analyse Tuxedo output and perform gene set enrichment analysis
* Synthesis sessions to explore using the most appropriate model
  organism and maximising outputs from your sequence data

The metabolomics track includes:
* Experimental design
* Quality assurance and quality control in metabolomics
* Hands-on sample preparation
* Analytical technologies including mass spectrometry and NMR
  spectroscopy
* Data processing, including LC-MS and SIMS stitching procedures
* Univariate and multivariate data analysis approaches
* Metabolite identification

Please feel free to inquire with Dr [X] Catherine Winder or John
Colbourne.

c.l.winder@bham.ac.uk
J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk

School of Biosciences, The University of Birmingham
Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom

Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory
Old Bar Harbor Rd., Salisbury Cove, ME 04672

j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk

