Symposium announcement
(follow link to “Symposium
Lake Baikal and special Baikalian session at the Lake Renate Wesselingh Biodiversity Research Centre UniBaikal shore. The registration fee (400 US$) includes an versité catholique de Louvain Louvain-la-Neuve, Belabstracts book, coffee breaks, Irkutsk city tour, Baikal gium symposium@bdiv.ucl.ac.be
the conference banquet. We plan to have a special pro- Renate Wesselingh <symposium@bdiv.ucl.ac.be>
Synopsis: We wish to announce a symposium to be
AFS 134th Annual Meeting on August 22-26 in Madison, Wisconsin. This symposium is intended for 1.5
communities. This symposium seeks to bring together
The symposium is tentatively organized into three sections. The first section will outline our current understanding of the evolutionary processes that underlie existing genetic and phenotypic diversity. Topics will include history of colonization and radiation, patterns of
We intend to propose the symposium to AFS by their
Sponsors for the symposium include the Great Lakes
2nd DNA POLYMORPHISMS IN HUMAN POPULATIONS International Symposium Friday Dec 5th
considered for two special symposia: (1) Conservation Brighton BN1 9QG
symposia will be considered for publication in a special
http://- tional symposium
urgent need of a public debate on such areas of investigation; their methodological aspects should be discussed in a wide frame that only a symposium can offer. Even though the scientific interests of many speakers are directed towards the understanding of human
diversity and the different forces shaping it, this symposium is also addressed to all scholars interested in
posters.We remind that the symposium is focused onSELECTION PROCESSES and on the GEOGRAPHIC
speaking in nine diverse symposia: Early Evolution
We have now UPDATED the website of the symposium with the abstracts of the invited speakers.
Oral communications; (3) Organizations of roundtables/symposia (2 hours, 4-6 speakers); (4) Express debates (1 hour, only one speaker with a communication of 15-20 mn followed by free discussion); (4) Plenary lectures (45 mn). Proposals dealing with roundtables/symposia, express debates and plenary lectures
A symposium in Woese’s honor was also presented,
We look forward to seeing you at the Georgia Institute indicating the symposium name or the symposium orof Technology for the 1st Annual Southeastern Ecology ganizer (Godfrey M. Hewitt: g.hewitt@uea.ac.uk or Deand Evolution Conference this March!
A conference symposium on phylogeography
to give a congress plenary lecture. The symposium
Symposium on
The focus of this symposium is on the relationship between evolvability and interaction in biology, robotics
The Center for Computational Biology at North Car- (~150 delegates) informal meeting of evolutionary biolina State University organizes annual symposia on ologists. The cost of the conference =
Symposium is entitled the Interface Between Quantita- all meals.
tive and Molecular Genetics and honors Professor Eugene J. Eisen. The Symposium will be held on the There will be three plenary talks, which will be given
Details about the Symposium can be found at: http:/- two parallel sessions of 20 minute talks at other times
/coltrane.gnets.ncsu.edu/Eisen Symposium.htm
announcement (free to distribute) International Symposium on Dynamical Systems Theory and Its Applications to Biology and Environmental Sciences
Symposium Objectives The purpose of “The International Symposium on Dynamical Systems Theory and
of dynamical systems appeared in biology and environmental sciences. The symposium constitutes of the lectures by about 30 eminent mathematical biologists and
are especially welcome to the symposium...( full PDF
during the symposium may appear as special issues of
Symposium announcement with web address (free to
Chair ( K. Sigmund: University of Vienna ), Co-chair distribute) International Symposium on Dynamical
http://yoake.sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp/University ), T. Namba ( Osaka Women’s University ), ˜ symposium/ Symposium Objectives The purpose of
“The International Symposium on Dynamical Systems
biology and environmental sciences. The symposium
t he symposium...
during the symposium may appear as special issues of
Symposium on
This symposium will serve as a forum to explore the
Committee .............. Paul Rymer Institute for Con- 2002). MEEGID VII will include 10-15 plenary lecservation Biology University of Wollongong NSW 2522 tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “express-
symposia. Limited partial funding is available. The
Call for Proposals for 2005 SSB Symposia. - The Society for Systematic Biologists invites proposals for symposia at the 2005 SSB meetings to be held at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. The meetings will be held
paragraphs explaining the purpose of the symposium
proposed length of each talk. Symposia are restricted to
in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those
symposium:
http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/workshop/SOP symposium.html More information on the SOP
Symposium: Genome Evolution in Microbial Eukaryotes June 2nd, Smithfield Rhode Island
intention in this one-day symposium is to highlight recent achievements in understanding the diversity of eukaryotic genomes, and to expose relevant researchers to
The symposium will take place at this year’s Society of
GSC CONFERENCE 2004 The 47th Annual ConSYMPOSIUM IN HONOR OF GEORGE C. ference of The Genetics Society of Canada University of Toronto June 17 to 20, 2004 http://WILLIAMS
A symposium will be held on April 24, 2004 on the
meeting web site at http://www.thesnidersweb.com/Registration for the symposium begins at 8:30 am on gsc2004/
For further information contact Doreen Ospm. After the symposium, there will be a reception and
for the symposium:
Please pre-register for the symposium and banquet. Attendance of the symposium will be $60 ($30 for students), and the banquet will be $50. For further details and on-line registration , please go to http://- We hold our annual meeting at Easter each year, which
Symposium Announcement:
The symposium will begin on the evening of March 12
Fourth annual symposium on Evolution, Development pm. The symposium will end on the morning of March
and Genomics sponsored by the joint NSF-IGERT 14 at 11 am with a brunch. The symposium will be held
http://evodevo.uoregon.edu The goal in of this symposium is
functional genomics (EEFG) is focused on the genes require community-based collaborations involving comthat affect ecological success and evolutionary fitness putational biologists, bioinformaticians and experimenin natural environments and populations. This inter- tal biologists. This symposium aims to bring together
Title: Symposium on Alternate Transcript Diversity - Data, Biology, and Therapeutics Date : Nov
on the symposium web pages http://www.ebi.ac.uk/information/events/atd-sympo/. The programme will
Please help us inform members of your EvolDir Directory about our upcoming Ecological Genomics Symposium. Detailed information can be found at our webAbstracts of the invited talks and poster presentations site, www.ksu.edu/ecogen . You are invited to attend
will be made available in the symposium proceedings. the 2nd Annual “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes”
Symposium on October 2 & 3, 2004, at the DoubleTree
you register you will be sent an automatically generated Symposium participants will learn about this new ine-mail message that includes your registration number. terdisciplinary field from leaders at the forefront of ecoPlease keep a record of this as you will need it to submit logical and evolutionary functional genomics. (See the
Payment by bank transfer: If you wish to pay your registration fee by bank transfer, please contact Liz Ford, Act now to finalize your Symposium registration and
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas NSF
This symposium aims at bringing together researchers
REMINDER: CALL FOR SYMPOSIA for the 10th
line of symposia submission is July 31, 2004: All California Riverside, USA) Rob Butcher (University of
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ . Any enquiries should be The Netherlands) Bart Pannebakker (Leiden Universend to eseb2005@eko.uj.edu.pl with “symposium” sity, The Netherlands)
/www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ Full text of symposia during the breaks.
call.html PDF version of symposia call: http://- details and whether you wish to present a poster to:
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/Call for symposia.pdf
10th Congress of the European Society for We aim at keeping the symposium free of charge.
This is a first announcement for the one-day symposium:
Symposia directly at the beginning of the Programme,
as abstracts are numbered consecutively. 5.- MEEGIDEMOP shared Symposia, Workshops and Monographic
range of subjects, spanning from the C. elegans interactome to the International Populus Genome Consortium. Morning symposia will be followed by concurrent
Symposium
therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to understand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
These issues have already been dealt with in a symposium on stress and evolutionduring the 5th International Congress of Evolutionary Biology and Systematics in Budapest (1966), and in the end resulted in
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
papers get lots of exposure in this thematic setting. Papers for the special issue will be selected by the organisers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
symposium might easily become full.
contributions that seem to fit that symposium and
min.). In conjunction with the symposium a special
therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to understand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
stress, adaptation and evolution, Aug. 22-26, Sandbjerg, Denmark; for further information on the symposium see below; if you are interested to attend, send
Symposium:
min.). In conjunction with the symposium a special
papers get lots of exposure in this thematic setting. Papers for the special issue will be selected by the organisers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
participants, the symposium might easily become overbooked. If this is the case the organisers will select
symposium and the special volume of JEB the best.
talks will be followed by plenary discussion. The symposium will be free (no registration fee).
in the human genome from haplotype structure. Nature invited to Radolfzell in January 2005 for a symposium
in a symposium entitled “Regulatory genes and the
biology and related fields, the MASAMB meetings symposium will explore the impact of plant regulatory
dents and scientists newly entering the field of genomic level. The symposium has been designed to emphasize
slot in the symposium will be filled from among the
minute talk during the symposium and will be eligible
position. More information on the symposium can
The symposium will be held at the LO-skolen, a residential conference centre in the historic town of Helsing(or Elsinor, as Shakespeare called it in Hamlet),
1 March 2004 Registration via the symposium web site
newsgroups. I apologize for any duplicate mailings you 2 -6 September 2004 The symposium
The symposium web site, including an outline program
http://www.zi.ku.dk/eunet/ If you would like to receive priority information on the symposium, please
The closing symposium of the EU research-training network INSECTS (Integrated Studies of the Economy of
Symposium Announcement:
Fourth annual symposium on Evolution, Development
evodevo.uoregon.edu The goal in of this symposium is
abstract deadline: Monday 19th April at 12:00 BST The symposium will begin on the evening of March 12 You must submit two versions of your poster abstract:
with a reception at 6 pm and the plenary lecture at 7:30 a 50-word abstract that will be printed in the conferpm. The symposium will end on the morning of March ence program, and a one-page abstract (1000 words)
14 at 11 am with a brunch. The symposium will be held to be posted on the conference web site. -At least one
considered for two special symposia: (1) Conservation
invite graduate students and post-doctoral associates symposia will be considered for publication in a special
considered for two special symposia: (1) Conservation Hattie Dambroski <hdambros@nd.edu>
symposia will be considered for publication in a special
symposium will be organized, with students acting as
dation will be quite limited for this meeting, and it is http://www.keystonesymposia.org/Meetings/important that we get accurate estimates of numbers ViewMeetings.cfm?MeetingID=671
Further information on the meeting will also be posted, be found at http://www.keystonesymposia.org
An International Pteridophyte Symposium, ’Ferns for
A Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing (PSB) 2005
merge population and comparative genomics. The re- 2005 Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing at http:/cent avalanche of SNP data has led to rapid devel- /psb.stanford.edu .
We would just like to draw attention to a symposium
http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2005/index.php3 Symposium: Sexual Selection & Mating Systems in
Michael T. Ghiselin, California Academy of Science: Symposium
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
symposium might easily become full.
contributions that seem to fit that symposium and
therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to understand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
These issues have already been dealt with in a symposium on stress and evolutionduring the 5th International Congress of Evolutionary Biology and Systematics in Budapest (1966), and in the end resulted in
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
min.). In conjunction with the symposium a special
papers get lots of exposure in this thematic setting. Papers for the special issue will be selected by the organisers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Symposia (2 hours, 4 to 6 communications)
Genomics (DNA microarrays, data analysis). In addition, we will sponsor symposia in topical areas in
genome science. Examples of symposia to be offered
talks will be followed by plenary discussion. The symposium will be free (no registration fee).
Three main symposia are proposed:
1. Evolution and ecology of biological diversity in fishes Program committee: Bjarni Jónsson Institute of FreshThe main focus of this symposium is the growing recog- water Fisheries Gudrún Marteinsdóttir Marine Renition of ecological factors as primary forces in the search Institute / Univ. Iceland Skúli Skúlason Hólar
Symposium:
therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to understand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
speaking in nine diverse symposia: Early Evolution
These issues have already been dealt with in a symposium on “stress and evolution” during the 5th International Congress of Evolutionary Biology and Systematics in Budapest (1966), and in the end resulted in a
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
May 6th update: there are more than 500 registrants, min.). In conjunction with the symposium a special
ers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
only accommodate around 35 participants, the symposium might easily become over-booked. If this is the
case the organisers will select participants and contributions that seem to fit that symposium and the special
At the University of Toulouse http://www.ladybio.upstlse.fr/Orchid-Symposium Meeting Summary
found on the website http://www.ladybio.ups-tlse.fr/Orchid-Symposium Or contact Laure Civeyrel on
55 61 96 web http://www.ladybio.ups-tlse.fr/OrchidSymposium LAboratoire DYnamique de la BIOdiversité Universite Paul Sabatier, IV R3 118 Route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse cedex 4, France
Proceedings Evol Symposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Proceedings Evol Symposium
Proceedings of International Symposium “Evolutionary
invited for the following symposia:
symposium on Phylogenetics and Rapidly Evolving
Evolutionary Biology http://www.nyu.edu/fas/dept/biology/bridges/ A NYC Area Student Symposium
participate in a symposium to bring together NYC
Metropolitan area. The Symposium will feature a talk
the symposium; an evening reception will follow the
a poster at the Building BRIDGES symposium,
on the BRIDGES symposium please refer to the
symposium’s website: http://www.nyu.edu/fas/dept/biology/bridges/ Sincerely yours, Eduardo de la Torre
graduate fellows and Symposium co-coordinators.
ancient DNA symposium next month that will take
specific symposia for talks, rather we expect researchers
speaking in nine diverse symposia: Early Evolution
**Additional symposium speakers selected from ab- The meeting will bring together PhD students from all
ter M. Fitch Symposium of the annual meeting of the
The closing symposium of the EU-funded research
site for all preregistered participants. There may or when the symposium was announced), and we hope to
ing, particularly students and faculty who are new to 2004, and is via the symposium web site:
search and educational activities at the USDA-ARS symposium banquet and a half-day excursion to the
list (details available at http://www.zi.ku.dk/eunet/index.html and from the symposium web site), which
topic of the symposium “Regulatory genes and the evolution of plant phenotype” and to U.S. minorities who
are traditionally under-represented in the biological sci- CALL FOR SYMPOSIA for the 10th Congress of the
speaker, followed by parallel symposia. The congress
There is room for about 25 regular symposia. Everyone
is invited to submit a symposium proposal (deadline
July 31, 2004). Successful Symposia will be selected by
TOPICS. A symposium should cover a well defined
SET-UP. Symposia will be strictly modular with three
symposia) or 5 contributed papers (half day symposia).
SUBMITTING A SYMPOSIUM PROPOSAL.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANISERS. There should be one organiser for each symposium, and one co-organiser who
3. A short (6 line) description of the symposium topic.
BUDGET. The budget for a symposium organizer will out the submission.
of symposium proposals. All submissions should be
made by website http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ and 1. The topic itself should be such that a symposium at
enquiries to eseb2005@eko.uj.edu.pl with “symposium” ESEB 2005 is justified, i.e., it falls within the Society’s
CONTACTS For general congress enquiries: Jan Kozlowski, eseb2005@eko.uj.edu.pl For enquiries on symposia and submission of symposium proposals: the This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
same address with “symposium” written as a sub- To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.ject.
on the meeting web site http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/Symposium: Genome Evolution in Microbial Eukaryevol/congres/ Information concerning housing.. are
intention in this one-day symposium is to highlight recent achievements in understanding the diversity of eukaryotic genomes, and to expose relevant researchers to
A symposium on “Statistical and Population Genetics”
Statistical Genetics. The symposium is contributed by
symposium:
http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/workshop/SOP symposium.html
www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/lkatz/The speakers will include: Michael Clegg, Cathy Lau- SOPgenome fundsrequest.html The symposium will
sium is at http://statgen.ncsu.edu/brcwebsite/– Laura A. Katz Department of Biological Sciseminars symposium.php Sincerely yours,
Members of EvolDirThis previously announced symposium is now free to
SYMPOSIUM
A symposium will be held on April 24, 2004 on the
the topics of the conference. Scientists and PhD Stu- Registration for the symposium begins at 8:30 am on
for the symposium:
GEORGE BARLOW How to deInformation about the symposium:
the symposium website: http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/williams/ Hope to see many of you!
Call for Proposals for 2005 SSB Symposia. - The Society for Systematic Biologists invites proposals for symposia at the 2005 SSB meetings to be held at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. The meetings will be held
paragraphs explaining the purpose of the symposium
pmNeurobiology of Breathing, Whiskering and Elec- proposed length of each talk. Symposia are restricted to
versity of Utah) Jeffrey Smith (NIH) Andre Longtin in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those
symposia. Limited partial funding is available. The
slots are still available. Proposals are therefore still accepted and welcome for: (1) Posters; (2) Oral communications; (3) Organizations of roundtables/symposia
Proposals dealing with roundtables/symposia, express
Symposia (4 hours, 4 to 6 communications)
plines such as linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, anSecond International Symposium on the Emergence thropology and computer science. The methodologies
Scope of the Symposium
The EELC Symposium Series
of Language conferences. This symposium will be held
The scientific program of the Symposium NEW PERSPECTIVES ON THE SYSTEMATICS & ECOLOGY
and can be found on http://www.ladybio.ups-tlse.fr/Orchid-Symposium “SCHEDULE”.
the eminent evolutionist Ernst Mayr and the 62nd anSymposium orchid symposium <npseo@cict.fr>
Radolfzell in January 2005 for a symposium at which
One-day symposium on Sympatric Speciation Friday
The research group Theoretical Biology at the University of Groningen organizes a one-day symposium
the symposium is free but, due to the limited capacULisbon Phylogeography Oct22-23
The symposium is financially supported by the Dutch
stress, adaptation and evolution, Aug. 22-26, Sandbjerg, Denmark; for further information on the symposium see below; if you are interested to attend, send
Symposium:
therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to understand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
symposium and the special volume of JEB the best.
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
min.). In conjunction with the symposium a special by train and plane. For info see:
papers get lots of exposure in this thematic setting. Papers for the special issue will be selected by the organisers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
participants, the symposium might easily become over-
Progress and Prospects Symposium - October 30 and
dinner, attendance at the symposium on Sunday, including morning and afternoon refreshments. Space is
limited. Persons interested in attending should conThe symposium-workshop will begin with a 6:00PM tact Sharon Richards, Center for Insect Science at indinner at the Arizona Sonoran Desert Museum and sects@arl.arizona.edu. The symposium itself will be
end on Sunday, October 31, at 5:00PM. The event has where rooms have been reserved for symposium attendees.
Genomics Symposium on Sunday October 31, a dinner
Krakow ESEB2005 GenomicsSymposium Aug15-20 . 7
Details of the scientific program, as well as guidelines for registration are available on the symposium
I look forward to meeting you at the symposium! Sincerely,
The Center for Statistics of Ghent University is organizing a one-day symposium on Statistical Genetics to
goal of this symposium is to bring together statisticians,
We would like to encourage applications for the following symposium:
populations being especially instrumental. This symposium covers recent empirical studies in life history
GenomicsSymposium Aug15-20
Genomic approaches towards tracing adaptive evolution - a special symposium in ESEB 2005
This symposium will be held in the ESEB 2005 meeting in Krakow 15-20.8.2005, and it is sponsored by European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB). Selected contributions from this symposium will be published in the Journal of Evolutionary Biology which
Invited speakers in this symposium include:
symposia topics or on any area within phylogenetic biology. All poster presentations are welcome. The Willi
http://vogelwarte.mpg.de/EOU05 Info.html#Symposia
often unexpectedly high. This symposium reviews the
The symposium is organized on the occasion of the PhD
Genomes Evolving Symposium April 15-16, 2005 University of California, San Diego
will host a symposium on Evolutionary Genomics.
biologists and landscape managers. The main objective of this symposium is to evaluate effective conservation solutions to the apparent dilemma of conserving
be on recent progress, with the additional aim of bringRegistration for the symposium is free. However, be- ing to light gaps in our knowledge worthy of future
several new disciplines (e.g. conservation genetics, phyantee admittance to the symposium.
International Symposium Mediterranean plant conservation in a changing world
September 16, 2005, 1-Day Symposium in Leiden, The
meeting begins. Contact the Quality Hotel Fagernes – This Symposium has grown out of a Working Group orFor all relevant information, see:
in Philadelphia held a symposium entitled “Mathematical Challenges to the Neo-Darwinian Interpretation
of Evolution”. This symposium was attended by a
The symposium volume, dated 1967, is very interesting
reading. It is at this symposium, during a transcribed
More to the point, the Wistar Symposium, 1967, seems
out of this symposium volume.
Speciation Symposium - FINAL REMINDER
attend. The symposium will be held in the Flett Lecture Theatre (for security reasons it is important that
Symposia: -“Evo-Devo History” (organizer: Scott
life possible? Symposium Issue: 2004 Annual Meet- life possible? Symposium Issue: 2004 Annual Meeting, American Genetic Association Edited by Shozo ing, American Genetic Association Edited by Shozo
Oslo phylogenetics call for symposia Jul25-29 . . . . . . . 5
*Information about travel to Alaska, hotels, and on- dents and faculty in two Arctic-theme symposia that
*Sign up to receive conference up- The symposia schedule is available online at:
http://- http://www.evolution05.uaf.edu/symposia.cfm
Symposia may be tightly or loosely circumscribed, but must center on an overarching theme.
published in the journal CLADISTICS, and symposium
Presentations are invited within pre-planned symposia
Oslo phylogenetics call for symposia
FINAL CALL FOR SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS
symposia, including a 1-2 paragraph description, and The Third Annual Northeast Ecology and Evolution
symposia proposals will be assessed in light of other at The Pennsylvania State University (University Park,
SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS SHOULD FOCUS ON
symposia:(1) Paleoecology, and (2) Conservation and
AGA Annual Meeting and Symposium Plant Evolution:
student research symposium. Applications and further
ideas were the subject of a symposium held in honor of
symposia proposals will be assessed in light of other
Presentations are invited within pre-planned symposia, This conference on PHYLOGENETIC BIOLOGY
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS:
symposia, including a 1-2 paragraph description, and in the phylogenetic and phylogenomic community are
Presentations are invited within pre-planned symposia,
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS:
symposia, including a 1-2 paragraph description, Charles Semple (Univ. Canterbury, Christchurch) Mike
These symposia proposals will be assessed in light of Call for Presentations of Young Scientists ——
other proposals registered. SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS
NIH, DHHS, is hosting a symposium entitled Evolution Irene Anne Eckstrand NIGMS Meeting Liof Infectious Disease, July 13-15, 2005, in Bethesda, aison
ease biology. This symposium will be an opportunity Web:
for this symposium, and the selected talks, should now
Our ’symposium’ was heavily over-attended, but the
SYMPOSIUM: EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY OF
It is also possible to participate in the symposium withfor the other topics and for more general informations
In this symposium, we will discuss recent progress in Dr. Francesco Paolo Patti, Ph.D.
symposia, or be on other topics of phylogenetic interest. All effort will be made to include non-symposium
PRELIMINARY SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM
Half-day symposium on Speciation
ciation Symposium, following the success of a meeting The Willi Hennig Society strongly encourages particiin 2003, to be held in the Flett Theatre on the afternoon pation from students and postdocs on their developing
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM
ogy, Ecology in Genes Symposium on November 4 - 6, Arabidopsis thaliana Charles W. Whitfield, University
Overland Park, Kansas. The Symposium will begin on behavioral maturation in the honey bee“
ing genes linked to the ecological success of Daphnia Symposium, please see: www.ksu.edu/ecogen <http:/Edward F. DeLong, Massachusetts Institute of Tech- /www.ksu.edu/ecogen> Project Directors include: Dr.
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas NSF communication or a poster. Only proposals in french
<http://www.aphidsymposium.org/index.php>
Symposium on Aphids is now accepting registrations,
be found on the website (www.aphidsymposium.org
<http://www.aphidsymposium.org/> ) - abstract submission information can be found on the Program page,
Please note that an International Phylloxera Symposium will be held in conjunction with this Aphid Symposium. See the website for more details.
Symposium on Aphids, Esplanade Hotel, Fremantle,
International Symposium
International Symposium
Symposium organised by Thomas Steinger, Dieter
organising an international symposium to discuss recent progress in the study of the evolution of resistance
The symposium will be free, but registration is necessary.
The symposium is generously funded by the “Troisième
The Center for Statistics of Ghent University is organizing a one-day symposium on Statistical Genetics to
goal of this symposium is to bring together statisticians,
for registration are available on the symposium web University Göttingen Justus-von-Liebig-Weg-11 37077
Symposium for the Harvard Initiative in Plant Biology Ivo Gut <ivogut@cng.fr>
www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/holbrook/symposium/
Plan now to attend the 3rd Annual Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes Symposium on November 4 - 6,
2005, in Kansas City at the Radisson Hotel in LenexaOverland Park, Kansas. The Symposium will begin on
into an ecological and evolutionary context. The Symposium will feature lectures by scientists at the forefront
Symposium, please see: www.ksu.edu/ecogen <http://www.ksu.edu/ecogen> Project Directors include: Dr.
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas NSF The workshop that follows will explore a number of
symposia, or be on other topics of phylogenetic interest. All effort will be made to include non-symposium
PRELIMINARY SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM
is found at http://www.um.es/eurmecar/ Please have You are invited to the Symposium
Speakers for Mini-Symposium:
http://www.symposium.psu.edu/ Registration fees are Richard Triemer, Michigan State University Ilya
James L. McDonel Symposium Director
Betsy R. King Symposium Coordinator
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology attend the symposium.
read at the symposium, please e-mail Lena Struwe
Registration fee: $20 for symposium, $50 for banquet
Time: 2-5 PM (symposium), 6-9 PM (banquet), you
Registration forms are enclosed and are also availA Symposium and Banquet Honoring the Legacy of able on-line at http://aesop.rutgers.edu/˜herbarium/David E. Fairbrothers
colleagues and his friends in a Mini-Symposium discussing his influence over plant research and conservation in the United States, with personal anecdotes from
Masters students is 400 EUR (or 100 EUR without ac- Functional Genomics (DNA microarrays, data analysis). In addition, we will sponsor symposia in topical arcomodation).
eas in genome science. Examples of symposia to be ofApplication forms can be filled in online on the work- fered include: Advances in genome assembly; Genomes
We would like to encourage applications for the following symposium:
from closely related species, the aim of this symposium
2005 at the Institute of Biochemistry and Biology and Call for 2006 Symposia
for symposia at the 2006 SSB meeting to be held at
the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a
and (5) the proposed length of each talk. Symposia are
restricted to half-day sessions. The society is particularly interested in symposia whose topics do not overlap
from young investigators and others typically underrepresented in symposia. Limited funding is available.
will be considered for two special symposia:(1) Paleoecology, and (2) Conservation and Climate Change.
First announcement of the one-day symposium ’Structure@Sea’ on thursday, 14th of April 2005, University
of population genetic structuring are often unexpectedly high. This symposium reviews the observed patterns for pelagic as well as benthic organisms and discusses recent theories on the possible causes for these.
This symposium is organized on the occasion of the
Community Genetics 2005 Symposium
ary genetics. This symposium explores the dynamic
symposium dinner is $25 per person. Indicate whether
Symposium Program
SystBiol2006 CallForSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Mayr, 1959. Where are We? Cold Spring Harbor Symposia of Quantitative Biology 24, 1-14.
SystBiol2006 CallForSymposia
AR. TreeScan: a bioinformatic application to search Call for 2006 Symposia. The Society for Systematic
for genotype/phenotype associations using haplotype Biologists invites proposals for symposia at the 2006
explaining the purpose of the symposium and its rel169: 441-453.
length of each talk. Symposia are restricted to half-day
that unite systematics with other fields are also desirable. We encourage participation from young investigators and others typically under-represented in symposia. Limited funding is available. The target date for
Krakow 5 ESEB Aug15-20 SymposiumAnnouncement
Krakow 6 ESEB Aug15-20 AsexualReproductionSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
WHEN: September 23-25, 2005 HOST: Clemson University, Dr. Margaret Ptacek WHERE: Camp Kanuga, A full-day symposium on “Evolutionary Genomics” will
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/ESEB>www.eko.uj.edu.pl/ESEB), symposium will focus on the major transitions, with
We would like to call the attention of EVOLDIR members to a symposium to be held at the ESEB meeting In
or poster presentations in the symposium “Natural hyWe invite researchers attending the meeting to submit
abstracts for the symposium. Presentations on topics
The invited speakers for the symposium are
General information on the meeting is at http://- observed. The symposium ?Natural Hybridization and
Symposium summary:
INVITATION TO ESEB SYMPOSIUM (Krakow, 1520 August, 2005)
We would like to call your attention to a symposium
We would like to bring the symposium “Biology and
The goal of this symposium is to discuss the role of
abstracts for the symposium. The registration fee of all The numerous studies on aging and the attempts to
EU Network of Excellence “Marine Genomics Europe”. of biology, because ageing and longevity are associInvited speakers for the symposium are: - Louis ated with a suite of traits, dealing with, among others,
the symposium should be directed to the
challenge of this moment. The emphasis of this symposium will be on the integration of different disciplines
we welcome you to submit a talk or poster to our symposium
Please go to the congress registration website (http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/reg/) and choose our symposium (2nd from the top).
We would like to draw your attention to the symposium
we would like to draw your attention to the symposium Adaptive microevolution would be demonstrated if the
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb . This symposium is devoted be considered in studying the evolutionary effects of
empirical/experimental evidence. Therefore, we strive Please go to the congress registration website (http:/for a balance between contributions by theoreticians /www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/reg/) and choose our symposium.
Dear Colleagues, we would like to bring to your attention two symposia to be held at the 10th Congress of the
As most of you probably know, the European congress posters is April 30. For detailed info and regisof Systematic and Evolutionary Biology (ESEB 2005) tration see the ESEB Congress website at http://will take place in Krakow, Polland, next June (10-14). www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ Symposia organizers: T. J.
symposium ’Functional Evo-Devo’, I wish to remind Bertossa
Chemin du Musee 10, CH-1700 Fribourg, SwitzerInvited speakers to this symposium include Pr James land www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/kawecki phone +41
Details on the application can be found at http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ I paste below a brief description of the symposium
We would like to draw your attention to the symposium: Hybrid zones and speciation which will be held
cated morphometric techniques have been integrated and speciationThe symposium will focus on genetic
in the study of evolution leading to the spread of Evo- analysis of hybrid zones and hybridizing species, patDevo research. The field is now ready to incorporate tern of change and introgression at multiple traits, corthe functional aspects of evolution in order to under- relation with environmental heterogeneity, mating patstand the adaptive forces shaping morphology. In this tern and origin of reproductive isolation. Role of selecsymposium we aim to attract researchers who study tion in maintaining differentiation in face of gene flow.
Please note that there are two symposia with similar
Looking forward to seeing you in Kraków. Symposium
may I draw your attention to two symposia at the 10th
SymposiumAnnouncement
Abbott Division of Environmental and Evolutionary of their microbial pathogens” - a special symposium in
This symposium will be held in the ESEB 2005 meeting
University Konstanz (Germany) and Daniel Falush, Pe- Symposium description:
Invited speakers in this symposium include: Mark biology. While most plant and animal species reproduce
AsexualReproductionSymposium
Also this year, the meeting contains a symposium This includes: Africa, some countries in Asia, South
and Central America, Russia and other former memon asexual reproduction. In this symposium Franois
We invite your participation in a symposium on
Poland) are due by April 30, 2005. We invite your participation in a symposium on “Evolutionary dynamics
symposium we will bring together researchers who are
symposium will illustrate how evolutionary genetic approaches can generate testable and useful predictions
Theme: The symposium will focus on the problem of
select among different models of almost arbitrary complexity. This symposium will focus on the latest developments with a mixture of theoretical and applied
space for approximately 35 researchers including postPRELIMINARY SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM
welcome, as are others either within the symposia top- and their number is limited to 60.
Each symposium will three or six speakers, with each
symposia at the 2006 SMBE Conference in Tempe, AZ registration fees. In exceptional cases, the conference
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA for 2006 Conference on will be considered in the order submitted and proposers
The 2006 annual meeting of the Society for Molecular All queries and the symposia proposals should be adBiology and Evolution will be held from May 24-28, dressed to symposia@smbe.org. Proposals may be re2006, at the Arizona State University in Tempe. The ceived as a Word or PDF attachment via email and
their proposals for potential symposia ideas. Symposia
man, and Brian Verrelli George Poste & JefCover sheet including symposium title and all informa- frey Trent, Honorary Co-chairs www.biodesign.org/efg
Ecological Genomics Symposium When?
that non-UK equipment will require an adaptor, because UK sockets are quite different from those elseA complete brochure and Symposium schedule can be
downloaded by clicking on the Symposium InformaPoster boards The boards measure 1.2m x 1.8m and tion website at www.ksu.edu/ecogen/symp2005.html
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas NSF <mailto:h.slater@lancaster.ac.uk>)
SYMPOSIUM ANNOUNCEMENT
14th New Phytologist Symposium: New directions in SYMPOSIUM ANNOUNCEMENT
plant ecological development The Royal Society, Lon- 14th New Phytologist Symposium: New directions in
symposium will focus on plant ecological development. New Phytologist is pleased to announce that our next
This will be a discussion-based, two-day meeting de- symposium will focus on plant ecological development.
Speciation Symposium
attend. The symposium will be held in the Flett Lec- Marseille Cedex 3 33491106489 http://www.up.univture Theatre (use Exhibition Road entrance to the Mu- mrs.fr/evol We are organizing the 10th Evolutionseum and follow signs), beginning at 12.45 and ending ary Biology Meeting at Marseille http://www.up.univat about 18.00. There will be an invited presentation by mrs.fr/evol-cgr/ Pierre.Pontarotti@up.univ-mrs.fr
meeting of the *European society for Evolutionary Developmental biology (EED) *Plenary talks-SymposiaContributed sessions-Poster sessions
Each symposium will have three to six speakers, with
symposium proposer and invited speakers in the form
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA for 2006 Conference on will be notified of the committee’s decision at the latest
All queries and symposia proposals should be addressed
their proposals for potential symposia ideas. Symposia
Cover sheet including symposium title and all information for point of contact Brief abstract including clear
to symposia@smbe.org. Proposals may be received as
“Margaret B. Ptacek” <mptacek@CLEMSON.EDU> can also find a preliminary program of the symposium.
In this symposium, we will discuss recent progress in
SYMPOSIUM: EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY OF knowledge of these approaches that they will be able
Professor Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology Department of Statistics Iowa State Speciation Symposium
attend. The symposium will be held in the Flett Lecture Theatre (use Exhibition Road entrance to the Museum and follow signs), beginning at 12.45 and ending
open symposium (limited to a maximum of 80 people),
the symposium, schedule of talks, and registration form
September 16, 2005, 1-Day Symposium in Leiden, The
This Symposium has grown out of a Working Group organized by Niles Eldredge and John Thompson at the
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN YOUNG SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM: MICROEVOLUTIONARY
outstanding young scientists to take part in a symposium focused on the microevolutionary processes underlying biodiversity to be held May 6, 2006. Topics of interest include: (1) identifying genetic basis of morphological, physiological, or behavioral variations within
line: “Nominee for Young Scientists Symposium”) or
by mail to “Young Scientists Symposium, Department
line: “Nominee for Young Scientists Symposium”) or
Additional information will soon be availby mail to “Young Scientists Symposium, Department
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN YOUNG SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM: MICROEVOLUTIONARY
outstanding young scientists to take part in a symposium focused on the microevolutionary processes underlying biodiversity to be held May 6, 2006. Topics of interest include: (1) identifying genetic basis of morphological, physiological, or behavioral variations within
We are pleased to announce a symposium on
much controversy about the mechanisms by wich cooperation evolved. The aim of the symposium will be
The symposium will consist of plenary talks by invited
attend the 3rd Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium
in Ecology, Ecology in Genes Symposium will begin on
hotel, and poster abstract information, visit our Symposium website, www.ksu.edu/ecogen/symp2005.html
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas NSF at Marseille http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol/congres/
September 16, 2005, 1-Day Symposium in Leiden, The
This Symposium has grown out of a Working Group organized by Niles Eldredge and John Thompson at the
International Symposium on Aquatic Vascular Plants:
On 11-14 January 2006, an International Symposium
http://www.vub.ac.be/APNA/aquaticplantsymposium2006/welcome.html
are running a one day symposium, Evolution and EcolThe general scheme of the conference will be similar to
August 16-19, 2006. The scientific program will consist of plenary sessions, symposia, contributed talks
Yves van der Peer, Ben Raphael, Cathal Seoighe, Eric *Symposia*:
The symposium will end with a plenary talk (“Allele
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN YOUNG SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM: MICROEVOLUTIONARY
For more information, please see the Symposium website: http:// sitemaker.umich.edu/yss2006.
tists Symposium. This one-day symposium is focused
American Genetics Association Annual Symposium, Visit the website for more information
http://www.theaga.org/agasymposium/Website:
symposium participants. The full program is now available on the meeting website.
Fourth Annual Woods Hole Behavior Symposium
The symposium will be held at the University of British min plus 3 min for questions) or for a standardColumbia, Vancouver, which is next to the Pacific sized poster by April 30, 2006 as an attached word
aside Sunday afternoon (July 22) so that symposium (subject: Woods Hole Behavior symposium abstract).
SMBE in 1993, the Walter M. Fitch Symposium has
The confirmed list of participants and symposia is at http://www.smbe.org/geb/events.htm A list of contributed titles can be seen at
The confirmed list of participants and symposia is at
11:00 p.m. The opening symposia and contributed p.m. The opening symposia and contributed sessions
sessions will begin at 8:00 a.m. on May 25. The closing will begin at 8:00 a.m. on May 25. The closing symsymposia and contributed sessions will take place from posia and contributed sessions will take place from 8:00
Halifax SMBE Jun24-28 SymposiaTopics . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Because of the limited size of the symposium we will
70 participants. Please submit an abstract of maximum 250 words before July 24, 2006. Symposium
This is the second announcement of the symposium: n.brede@bio.uni-frankfurt.de
SymposiaTopics
CALL FOR SYMPOSIUM TOPICS–SMBE annual
deadline for the symposium:
suggest symposium topics. Email suggestions to John
*** The extended call for registration ends August 10, speakers, symposia, registration, travel and accommodation:
symposium. Our aim is to stimulate a broad and in- Phone: (902) 494-2536 Fax: (902) 494-1355 Webpage:
Because of the limited size of the symposium we would away within them”. Francis Crick, 1957
registration before August 10, 2006. Symposium fee
Symposium on “The Origin of Novel Features”, October 6-8, 2006
velopment and Genomics would like to extend an invitation to attend our upcoming symposium entitled
More information about this symposium, including a
and of Ecology & Evolution will host an informal symposium on the relationship between science and philosophy, on Saturday, March 10, 2007 on the SBU campus
the two cultures. Selected papers will be collected in a http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/ctr/ioesymposium.html The
On behalf of the organizing committee for the 8th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium to
bined resources for the first International Symposium
Ph.D. roca@ncifcrf.gov Meredith Brown, DVM brownDetailed information on this symposium, registramer@ncifcrf.gov
International Symposium on Health Informatics and the deadline for the full paper submission is December
concerning the “International Symposium on Health In-
Our genome has been literally scupted by this selection Maritime Connectivity symposium (see below). Colprocess.
(secretary) ird th@ksc.th.com Website : http://- Faucci <anuschka@hawaii.edu> (the symposium orwww.th.ird.fr Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr
Symposium information:
stand post-Pliocene factors influencing connectivity’ (a Faucci <anuschka@hawaii.edu> (the symposium orterm used here to describe the continuum from isola- ganizers). Please also arrange for letters of recomtion to panmixis) in marine taxa. A team of interna- mendation from two people knowledgeable of your
program will include plenary addresses, concurrent contributed papers, symposia and poster sessions. As this
Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing Maui, Hawaii, Jan and how one would go about building bridges between
The deadline for abstract submission for the Pacific high-impact journal dedicated to broad conceptual isSymposium on Biocomputing (PSB) is November 10, sues in biology.
helping us to disseminate information about this out- cordially invited to the 3rd annual Southeastern Ecolstanding symposium is greatly appreciated! Thank you! ogy and Evolution Conference hosted by the University of Central Florida, Orlando (16-18 March 2007).
to our website at: <http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/CTR/ioesymposium.html> Organized by Thomas Smith and
There is a printable version of the symposium announcement online too!
are many excellent restaurants and a choice of ho- British Ecological Society Annual Symposium
http://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/articles/meetings/current/2007annual symposium/
person at the Hymenoptera Symposium at the ESA
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
versity (http://www.mahidol.ac.th/) will be an offficial 2002). MEEGID VIII will include 10-15 plenary lecco-organizer of the meeting, which will be supported tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “expressalso by the French Embassy (http://www.ambafrance- debates” (20 mn presentation by only one speaker followed by 40 mn free discussion) and several poster sesth.org/).
(secretary) ird th@ksc.th.com Website : http://The inaugural symposium of the newly created “Comwww.th.ird.fr Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr
INAUGURAL SYMPOSIUM: Development, Morphology, Evolution: The Triple Helix
Confirmed speakers for the May 4 symposium include:
To register to attend this exciting symposium, or to
A companion symposium sponsored by the Canadian Department of Biological Sciences University of Alberta
générale pour ratifier la constitution et élire les membres du comité exécutif et du conseil, un symposium
2nd INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON ANIMAL
host the 2nd International Symposium on Animal Funcpar courriel à ecoevo@gmail.com, avant le 1er février
Symposium will be held at the Henry Center on the
soumettent leur résumé le plus tôt possible, seront in- foci of the Symposium guest speakers and international
functional genomics scientists. In addition, selected abstracts will be presented orally by Symposium participants. All participants are welcome to bring posters
expression profiling in animal model systems. A formal call for abstracts and details for Symposium presentations, registration, and hotel booking are now
available on the Symposium’s web site at http://www.isafg.msu.edu.
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia
Call for Symposia Annual Meeting 2007
for the two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in
conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals
should include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme
rationale for the symposium explaining why this topic
for a Society-sponsored symposium.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerging fields, fields ripe for syntheses, and fields different
symposia. The Council particularly encourages proposals that include young investigators and others traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
symposia at its meeting in June 2006. All proposers will
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on request. To be assured of full consideration,
SSEAnnualMeeting CallforSymposia
Dobzhansky Prize Applications -Call for Symposia for
Call for Symposia for Annual Meeting in 2007
for the two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in
conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals
should include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme
rationale for the symposium explaining why this topic
for a Society-sponsored symposium.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerging fields, fields ripe for syntheses, and fields different
symposia. The Council particularly encourages proposals that include young investigators and others traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
symposia at its meeting in June 2006. All proposers will
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on request. To be assured of full consideration,
19th IEEE International Symposium on ComputerBased Medical Systems, CBMS 2006 Salt Lake City
conference paper. More information about the symposium, registration fees, venue can be found here: http://cbms2006.ece.byu.edu .
The symposium will be held at the University of British
aside Sunday afternoon (July 22) so that symposium
Web site: http://www.theaga.org/agasymposium/brings together leading junior and senior scientists from
will attempt to synthesize what we know and to sug- protein reconstruction, computational evolutionary gegest promising avenues for further research. The meet- nomics, microbial/viral diversity and evolution, evoluing will include invited and contributed talks, as well as tion of body plans, sex chromosome evolution, adapposter and discussion sessions to encourage greater in- tive evolution, evolution of novelty and gene regulavolvement of symposium participants. Funds are avail- tion, molecular evolution of interspecific hybrids, and
sion leaders represent some of the leaders in experimenSYMPOSIUM ON GENETICS OF SPECIATION
This is the second announcement for a symposium on
able for talks in seven symposia focusing on all as- email from the University of Edinburgh finance office,
générale pour ratifier la constitution et élire les membres du comité exécutif et du conseil, un symposium
Because of the limited size of the symposium we will
Symposium fee will be
This is the first announcement of the symposium:
the symposium. Our aim is to stimulate a broad and interdisciplinary discussion among ecologists, geneticists
organisms and approaches (theoretical as well as empirical). This symposium is open also to researchers
than August 31 2006. The symposium is cost-free,
Symposium funding: “The Memory Fund of Hans Kristiansson” and the Sections for Animal Ecology, Theoretical Ecology and Plant Ecology and Systematics
symposium that will take place between September 27
symposium will take place at the “Blue Hall” in the
The theme of the symposium is Speciation: from diversification to reproductive isolation.
The symposium is intended to be a conceptually and
taxonomically broad meeting, aimed to stimulate crossdisciplinary discussions. The target of the symposium
symposium that will take place between September 27
symposium will take place at the “Blue Hall” in the
The theme of the symposium is Speciation: from diversification to reproductive isolation.
The symposium is intended to be a conceptually and
taxonomically broad meeting, aimed to stimulate crossdisciplinary discussions. The target of the symposium
organisms and approaches (theoretical as well as empirical). This symposium is open also to researchers
than August 31 2006. The symposium is cost-free,
Symposium funding: “The Memory Fund of Hans Kristiansson” and the Sections for Animal Ecology, Theoretical Ecology and Plant Ecology and Systematics
50th Annual Systematics Symposium of the Missouri
symposium at the beautiful Friday Harbor Labs on San
why they are relevant to the symposium. Applications
at Kansas State University (http://www.k-state.edu/- Plan now to attend the 4th Annual Symposium
and evolution” was the title of the 50th Annual Systematics Symposium of the Missouri Botanical Garden
following symposium, which is by invitation only. The
and how you might contribute to the symposium
International Symposium on Environmental Factors,
view. Keeping this objective in mind, a 2 day international symposium on “Environmental Factors, Cellular Stress and Evolution” is planned at the Banaras
Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 3, 4 & 5,
2006, in Kansas City. The Symposium will begin on
Funding for this symposium is provided by Targeted
partial list of Symposium speakers. Each is doing research at the forefront of Ecological and Evolutionary
Final announcement- INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON THE EVOLUTION OF VERTEBRATE
symposium on the evolution of vertebrate animals held
The symposium will take place on 1-2 June 2006, with month!!
In conjunction with the symposium there will also be a
2006, but it is still possible to attend. The symposium
*Symposia*:
tific program will consist of plenary sessions, symposia,
why they are relevant to the symposium. Applications
symposium at the beautiful Friday Harbor Labs on San
On behalf of the organizing committee for the 8th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium to
over 20 invited symposia (2) “Fitch Legacy” and
“Nei Legacy” symposia celebrating the achievements
day, May 24 with a Welcome Social and Registration Ohta) and “Service to Evolutionary Biology Commufrom 7:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. The opening symposia and nity” (Dr. Brian Golding) (4) A NASA Astrobiolcontributed sessions will begin at 8:00 a.m. on May 25. ogy Institute symposium on “Discovering the TimeThe closing symposia and contributed sessions will take tree of Life” (5) Many Graduate and Undergraduate
scientific contributions including papers, posters, special lectures and 15 symposia. A full slate of field trips
Monday morning, July 31st, kicks off the scientific sessions and symposia. Tuesday afternoon, August 1st,
Symposium
http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/biolinv We are organising an international symposium on evolutionary
The symposium will be free, but registration is neces- University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-5289
The symposium is generously funded by the “Troisième
School of Medicine Peter Donnelly, University of OxFor details regarding the Symposium please see the Call
International Symposium on Flatworm Biology ISFB
International Symposium on Flatworm Biology 2006
the opening of the registration for the 10th International Symposium on Flatworm Biology that will be
First announcement- INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON THE EVOLUTION OF VERTEBRATE
symposium on the evolution of vertebrate animals held Functional Genomics of Michigan State University will
host the 2nd International Symposium on Animal Functional Genomics (ISAFG) on May 16-19, 2006. The
The symposium will take place on 1-2 June 2006, with
Symposium will be held at the Henry Center on the
Integrative Bioinformatics, Austria Philippe Janvier, Featured areas of Symposium guest speakers and interMuséum National d’Histoire Naturelle, France Wilfried national delegates include Statistical Genomics, Bioinde Jong, Univ. of Nijmegen, The Netherlands Herve formatics and Data Mining, Animal Health, Reproduction, and Growth and Metabolism.
stracts will be presented orally by Symposium participants. All participants are welcome to bring posters
In conjunction with the symposium there will also be
2006. The symposium carries only a small registration expression profiling in animal model systems.
be done on-line at the Symposium web site http://www.isafg.msu.edu.
versity at SSE/SSB program, funded by the UnderEELC Symposium Series This workshop is the third graduate Mentoring in Environmental Biology (UMEB)
20 symposia with invited speakers (2) “Fitch Legacy”
and “Nei Legacy” symposia celebrating the achievements of world-renowned students and academic associates of Walter Fitch and Masatoshi Nei, co-founders of
Ohta) and “Service to Evolutionary Biology Community” (Dr. Brian Golding) (4) A NASA Astrobiology Institute symposium on “Discovering the Timetree of Life” (5) Many Graduate and Undergraduate
The conference will open on the evening of Wednesday, May 24 with a Welcome Social and Registration from 7:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. The opening symposia
May 25. The closing symposia and contributed sessions will take place from 8:00 a.m.-12:00 noon on Sunday, May 28. See a tentative schedule of events at
the Biological Sciences will hold their 33rd annual biology symposium on
symposium06.htm for additional information.
a first landscape genetics symposium, where primarily
propose a follow-up symposium, specifically welcom- oral and poster presentations, this meeting will also ining any papers that report applications of molecular clude three symposia with a number of invited guest
symposia proposals is coming up soon.
Phyloinformatics Symposium
mittee followed by a lecture by David Hillis (University Hibbett (Clark University), Mikael Thollesson (Upof Texas, Austin). SYMPOSIA
Species Symposium
4th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium: Plan now
to attend the 2006 Ecological Genomics Symposium in
ing alleles among samples is not useful when you want symposia and contributed sessions will begin at 8:00
to test a diversity index such as the allelic richness. a.m. on May 25. The closing symposia and contributed
Walter M. Fitch Symposium has provided a forum for the year of 2007.
symposium. The symposium will be assigned based on
Symposium on May 25, 2006. The winner will be cho- Undergraduate Student Travel Awards for minority and
airfare, accommodations, and meeting registration expenses for the 2006 meetings at ASU. The travel award either a platform or a poster presentation. The assignamounts are US $1,000 for each US contestant and US ments of symposium and poster sessions will be based
December 2006. Call for conferences/symposia propos- vector (co-evolution) are particularly encouraged. All
(CDC; http://www.cdc.gov/) in Atlanta and the Insti- 2002). MEEGID VIII will include 10-15 plenary lectut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD; http:/- tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “express/www.ird.fr/) in France. Mahidol University (http://- debates” (20 mn presentation by only one speaker folwww.mahidol.ac.th/) will be an offficial co-organizer of lowed by 40 mn free discussion) and several poster sesthe meeting, which will be supported also by the French sions.
SARS, malaria, dengue, tuberculosis. Pleanary lectures and symposia will also deal with trasnversal topics
symposia.
Dear Colleagues, We envision bringing together a symposium at the 3rd International Conference on Rodent
Our symposium would be one of many that deal with
The symposium ’Adaptation and Diversification in Ro**Switzerland** and **Austria** (GfOe),*
a symposium on the Evolutionary Biology and Systematics, chaired by Ken Aplin (Ken.Aplin@csiro.au), also
will be held in conjunction with this symposium, and
you will be able to attend both symposia.
als, and industrial practitioners for interaction and exfor presentations that would fit within our symposium.
the locus, might merit their own symposium. This will Typical, but not exclusive, topics of interest include:
this a great symposium by contributing a paper. We
A one-day symposium on
An update on this symposium advertised a couple of 9.45 Opening (Hans Metz, Leiden)
are running a one day symposium, Evolution and Ecol10.40-11.20 Evolution of specialization and speciation,
symposium begins at 9:45 am and we will run through
Regent’s Park. Nearest bus - No. 274; Underground Participation in the symposium is open to anyone interested.
Symposium on Animal Functional Genomics (2nd
serve as the Symposium Proceedings and is scheduled
note that you must register on line at the Symposium
The 2006 Seattle Showcase Symposium in Statistical
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN YOUNG SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM: MICROEVOLUTIONARY
For more information, please see the Symposium website: http:// sitemaker.umich.edu/yss2006.
will sponsor the University of Michigan Young Scientists Symposium. This one-day symposium is focused
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA
speaker, followed by parallel symposia. About 25 symMatt Hahn (Assistant Professor, U. of Indiana) “Cre- posia will be accepted. A symposium will typically conation, extinction, and evolution of gene families in pri- sist of three invited talks and 8-10 contributed talks.
We invite everyone to propose subjects for symposia
tion why the symposium is of interest to Evolutionary
The symposium will end with a plenary talk (“Allele including their affiliation and e-mail address.
frequency and the size of allelic effects”) by Dr. An- Symposia proposals should be sent to the followdrew Clark of Cornell University, a leader in the field ing e-mail address no later than June 15, 2006:
Fourth Annual Woods Hole Behavior Symposium
make sense of the following Symposium topics, along
Current Symposia
(subject: Woods Hole Behavior symposium abstract).
12 specialized symposia, 9 “express-debates” (20 mn
Special emphasis through plenary lectures and symposia will be given to health problems of particular
and symposia will also deal with trasnversal topics
symposia, since some slots are still available.
Call for conferences/symposia proposals and papers. Scientific committee of MEEGID VIII :
The following topics for symposia and/or plenary lectures have been already selected
P.S. Symposium Objectives
Conference “Biodiversity Conservation - From Genes to are important in the global biological and environmenHabitats” Davos (Switzerland), November 23/24, 2006 tal problems of their own. The purpose of “The InVisit the website for information and registration: ternational Symposium on Dynamical Systems Theory
http://www.wsl.ch/intrabiodiv Felix Gugerli, PhD Bi- and Its Applications to Biology and Environmental Sciologist / Group leader Swiss Federal Research Institute ences” is to discuss many interests on the rich properWSL Research Unit Ecological Genetics & Evolution ties of dynamical systems appeared in biology and environmental sciences. The symposium constitutes of the
+41-(0)44-739- utors are especially welcome to the symposium. http:/2215 http://www.wsl.ch/staff/felix.gugerli/
The 2nd International Symposium “Dynamical Systems Theory and Its Applications to Biology and Environmental Sciences” Hamamatsu Japan, March 14th17th, 2007. http://moon.sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp/ ˜ dstsympo2nd/ Deadline for call for papers is 16 October,
The symposium broadly focusses on any dynamical aspect of math biology. Many presentations are reviewed
The IEEE Artificial Life Symposium will include studies of evolutionary systems and aspects of evolution in
IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence
The First IEEE Symposium on Artificial Life http://www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07/ April 1-5, Ethics of artificial life Evolutionary and adaptive dynamics Evolutionary computation Fitness landscapes
This symposium will be offering a best student paper Robotics Self-organization Self-replication Simulation
IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence
The First IEEE Symposium on Artificial Life http://www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07/ April 1-5,
This symposium will be offering a best student paper Robotics Self-organization Self-replication Simulation
logical Genomics Symposium November 3 to 5, 2006,
Symposium WHEN? November 3, 4, and 5, 2006
A complete brochure and Symposium schedule can the MASAMB meetings provide an intimate setting for
be downloaded by clicking on the Symposium exchange of ideas in methodological and applied reInformation website <http://www.ksu.edu/ecogen/- search. Research students and scientists newly entering
man, University of Manchester, UK Nick Goldman, EuFunding for this symposium is provided by Kansas ropean Bioinformatics Institute, UK Des Higgins, University College Dublin, Ireland
10.00 Welcome & Introduction to Symposium. Ewan
A Symposium
as well as in human societies. The Symposium will
Thanks and I look forward to your submissions, Felisa the Symposium, submit an abstract (<200 words) by
3 symposia, 132 contributed talks, 2 poster sessions,
symposiums, 132 présentations libres, 2 sessions de
http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/ctr/ioesymposium.html The
third annual Young Scientists Symposium to be held on The organization of this year’s event is in the hands of
March 10, 2007. The annual symposium, supported by Nuno Ferrand (CIBIO), with collaboration from Jorge
tists from throughout the United States to focus on a Vieira (Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular particular theme. The theme for the 2007 symposium IBMC; http://www.ibmc.up.pt/).
One major goal of the symposium is to highlight the
2007 symposium, for whom we will cover the expenses
research talks at the symposium, invited speakers will
women and minorities. Questions about the symposium or the nomination process should be sent to the
solutions to understanding genetic basis of complex International Symposium on Ecological Implications of
The symposium will address the ways in which beencouraged.
visit the symposium web
ranging from the change in ecosystem functioning with symposium/symposium.html .
on Consumer-Resource Interactions The symposium will be followed by an international Ph.D.
Announcing a Special Symposium!
We would like to invite all interested parties to attend the forthcoming “Bayesian Invasion” symposium.
The symposium will be held on the Yale campus between 10AM-6:00PM on Saturday October 28, 2006, in
Symposium The course will be preceeded by a symposium on ’Ecological consequences of adaptive behaviour’. The symposium will take place in Wageningen on Friday November 3. For more info on
the symposium go to www.currentthemesinecology.nl . W.Mooij@nioo.knaw.nl W.Mooij@nioo.knaw.nl
Symposia:
Call for conferences/symposia proposals and papers
tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “expressdebates” (20 mn presentation by only one speaker fol- Registration and abstract submission are possible by
Special emphasis through plenary lectures and symposia will be given to health problems of particular
SARS, malaria, dengue, tuberculosis. Pleanary lectures and symposia will also deal with trasnversal topics
symposia.
The following topics for symposia and/or plenary lectures have been already selected
we have now posted the programme of the symposium
Symposium organised by Heinz Müller-Schärer, great intellectual achievements in the history of science,
ganising an international symposium on evolutionary infancy. Scientific advances are coming at a time of
The symposium will be free, but registration is neces- awards will be granted, with priority based exclusively
The symposium is generously funded by the “Troisième
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM in Kansas
Ecology in Genes Symposium at a slightly higher cost. Additional information about this interdisciplinary
The Symposium will begin on Friday, November 3, at research initiative is available at www.ksu.edu/ecogen
ecological context. The Symposium will feature lectures by scientists at the forefront of Ecological and 11/3/06 Last day to Register - - Symposium begins
Evolutionary Functional Genomics. Participants will Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
Register now to attend the 4th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium on November 3-5, 2006, at The
City. The Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes Symposium will begin on Friday, Nov. 3, at 6:00 p.m. and
brochure, poster abstract submission information, registration, and hotel reservations, visit our Symposium
ecological context. The Symposium will feature lectures by scientists at the forefront of Ecological and
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
ter, “Genetics of reproductive isolation in sticklebacks” (CISBIC), and the Natural History Museum, are organising a one day symposium on *Systems Biology
http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/ctr/ioesymposium.html The
http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/ctr/ioesymposium.html The in population genetics and evolutionary biology, mainly,
vaded areas. The project will be in association with new and unique interdisciplinary classes, symposium,
Call for abstracts for the Symposium on “Integrative models for the dynamics of antigenically-diverse
The symposium will be free, but registration is necessary.
The symposium is generously funded by the “Troisième
2nd International Symposium on the Environmental
Annational Symposium on the Cold Hardiness of Animals
Symposium on “The Origin of Novel Features”, October 6-8, 2006
sity / University of Oregon IGERT in Evolution, DeSymposium organised by Heinz Müller-Schärer, velopment and Genomics would like to extend an inThomas Steinger, Antoine Guisan, and Luc Gigord 2-3 vitation to attend our upcoming symposium entitled
ganising an international symposium on evolutionary
More information about this symposium, including a The early registration deadline is **August 11**.
Symposium on “The Origin of Novel Features”, October 6-8, 2006
The graduate student affiliates of the Indiana University / University of Oregon IGERT in Evolution, Development and Genomics would like to extend an invitation to attend our upcoming symposium entitled
Register now to attend the 4th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium on November 3-5, 2006, at The
City. The Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes Symposium will begin on Friday, Nov. 3, at 6:00 p.m. and
brochure, poster abstract submission information, registration, and hotel reservations, visit our Symposium
ecological context. The Symposium will feature lectures by scientists at the forefront of Ecological and
More information about this symposium, including a
SPECIATION SYMPOSIUM IN LUND (SWEDEN)
We wish to draw your attention to a symposium en9/15/06 Poster Abstracts due
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
September 27- September 28 2006. The symposium is
Deadline for signing up for this symposium is August
in an informal symposium dinner on September 28, and
if so, if you are vegetarian. The symposium is cost free,
cover the costs of the symposium dinner.
Please join us for the 8th International Feline Retro- Winterbach, Studies of lions in the Botswana ecosysvirus Research Symposium in Washington DC October tem * Janet K. Yamamoto, Advances in FIV vaccine
The Chinese Academy of Sciences Institute of Hydrobology in Wuhan, P.R. China and the US NSFsupported Cypriniformes Tree of Life Project have combined resources for the first International Symposium
Detailed information on this symposium, registration, accommodations, travel, workshops and working
Uppsala ESEBSymposium Epidemiology . . . . . . . . . . 13
Uppsala ESEBSymposium HybridCytonuclearCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Uppsala ESEBSymposium MHCEvol Aug20-25 . . . . 14
for the meeting can be downloaded from http://hgv2007.nci.nih.gov/HGV2007 Flyer 2.pdf The symposium will focus upon the latest breakthroughs and
Insect Immunity and Parasite Symposia
be held in Edinburgh, and includes several symposia monkeys”
will include symposia on insect parasites and medical/veterinary entomology. The subsequent two days
Plenary Speakers, and the list of Symposia titles and
Symposia titles and organisers
ference registration, abstract submission, symposium
SymposiA and invited SPEAKERS (*indicates chair)
of the Canadian Society of Zoologists is pleased to announce the following symposium and two satellite symApplications are invited for travel scholarships to the posia that may be of interest. These will all be part
under-represented minority faculty members are espe- ———- MAIN SYMPOSIUM Wed. May 23 ————
—————- SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM #1 Tue. May
—————- SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM #2 Wed.
The congress is articulated in four symposia:
the subjects of the symposia, 15’+5’ for the discussion,
day will start with a plenary keynote lecture, followed Shaw (University of Minnesota) John Willis (Duke Uniby parallel symposia. Papers will cover topics such as versity)
(talks and posters) for the symposium *The Evolution
Society for Ecology and Evolution will be in Toronto Symposium description: Sex chromosomes evolved re(appx. 1 hr from Guelph) directly after the Yodzis Col- peatedly in many lineages. Repeatedly, the nonrecombining, unisexually restricted chromosome has deloquium. For information go to
ESEB 2007- Symposium 3
submission of abstracts. April 30th: Deadline for reAs organizers of the following symposium at the ESEB
Symposium organisers: Peter Arndt (MPI, Berlin)
whole day symposium on:
Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’SOCIAL EVOLUTION IN MICROBES AND PARASITES’ at the
Symposium description: We will bring together researchers who have contributed to our expanding appreciation for the complexity of social interactions in
The focus of the symposium is on conservation genetics with particular emphasis on the following issues:
the symposium we are particularly interested to discuss
This symposium is sponsored by the European Science
fee for a few of the oral contributors to the symposium.
symposium organizers (include a copy of abstract and
Symposium organisers: Ashleigh Griffin, University of volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk
Uppsala ESEBSymposium
Uppsala ESEBSymposium
ESEB XI symposium on “Evolutionary epidemiology
This is a call for abstracts for a symposium at the ESEB
declines in the performance of hybrids, known as hybrid breakdown. This symposium will cover recent developments in the research on cytonuclear coevolution
If you are interested in participating in the symposium,
is available at: http://www.zoo.utoronto.ca/lindell/symposium.html See you in Uppsala!
Johan Lindell and Staffan Bensch, Symposium organizers
Symposium organisers: Tobias Lenz, Max Planck
Uppsala ESEBSymposium
we invite you to submit your abstracts for the symposium ’Why MHC makes the difference its role in
various fields’ at the 11th conference of the European Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’THE ROLE OF
Symposium description: The Major Histocompatibility Symposium description: This symposium will gather
Steven Vamosi, Univermorphism and its consequences on mate choice, host- Symposium Organizers:
Call for participation to a symposium at the ESEB XI
biology. The symposium will cover papers on theory
effect of population structure on the evolution of cooperation. These areas are connected to adaptive dynamics, which aims to model evolution starting from population dynamics. The symposium welcomes contributions in any area of game theory and related fields (both
Invited speakers of the symposium are Olof Leimar
(Stockholm University) and John McNamara (University of Bristol). This symposium is organised by Eva
Talks and posters contributing to this symposium
the Congress website, http://www-conference.slu.se/eseb2007/, before 15 April 2007. For further information, please feel free to contact the symposium organisers.
If you are interested in participating to the symposium, there are opportunities for talks and posters.
Call for abstracts for the symposium
Call for participation to a symposium ESEB XI
to strong discrepancies among evolutionary histories inferred from different loci. The symposium aims to examine the extent of congruence between evolutionary
information on this symposium, please contact the organisers Gerald Heckel (gerald.heckel@zoo.unibe.ch) or
We are writing to advertise a symposium at the
are interested in contributing a talk to this symposium, the deadline for abstract submissions is: APRIL
Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’GENE MAP- Mark Brown & Thierry Rigaud
this symposium.
This symposium will examine the evolutionary conseESEB XI runs from the 20th-25th August 2007. Details quences of complexity in host-parasite systems, focusof the conference, including an online abstract submis- ing on (i) multiple parasite species sharing the same
ecologically relevant organisms. This symposium will
to bring researchers in this field together within a symposium, providing impetus for the development of this
This is a call for the symposium “Process and implications of phenotype-dependent dispersal and settlement”, as part of the 11th European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) conference (20th-25th August
abstracts for talks and posters for this symposium.
Call for poster/presentation abstracts for a symposium
Symposium Summary:
tions for topics such as the rate and degree of local preferences. This symposium will consider recent theoadaptation, the potential for peak shift, and speciation- retical approaches to the study of mating competition
with-gene flow. With this symposium we hope to raise and sex-roles, which together with new genetic data
information on this symposium, please contact Tony
Proposals for 2008 Symposia due June 1, 2007 The
Large or small? Does it have a lab? Homework ex- symposia at the 2008 SSB meeting to be held at the
the purpose of the symposium and its relevance to sysGeorge W. Gilchrist Email: gwgilc@wm.edu Director tematics, (3) a list of presentations including proposed
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions. The so-
ciety is particularly interested in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those from previous meetings,
others typically under-represented in symposia. Limited funding is available. Proposals will be discussed
If you are organizing a symposium it would be a good
and computing over trees; and making practical use of Just a reminder that the 1st Annual Arthropod Gephylogenetic libraries (e.g. PAL, JEBL, BioJava; BioP- nomics Symposium is scheduled for Friday, April 20,
Featured speakers at the Symposium include: <http://www.nd.edu/%7Ebiology/romero-severson.shtml>
The Symposium will begin with refreshments at
A brochure with the symposium schedule is attached and is also available at our website, <http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium.shtml> http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium.shtml . Please register TODAY and plan to
Edinburgh SpeciationSymposium Aug30 . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
ConGen3: The 3rd biannual International Symposium
Speciation Symposium programme: www.systass.org/biennial2007/symposia.shtml#speciation
Edinburgh SpeciationSymposium
SPECIATION SYMPOSIUM; 30th August 2007; Ed-
ConGen3: The 3rd biannual International Symposium for early registration is 31 July 2007. See http://www.entm.purdue.edu/conference/index.html for comon Conservation Genetics
build on that legacy, we are sponsoring a Symposium,
Barcelona SMBE2008 Jun5-8 CallForSymposia Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
CallForSymposia Deadline
Symposia of the 2008 annual meeting of the Society for Jakub Tı̀1 itel <jakub.tesitel@centrum.cz>
IGERT Symposium on Evolution, Development, and
Devo”. The symposium will be held in Eugene, Oregon
at the Valley River Inn from April 4 - 6, 2008. The symposium has been organized by the IGERT-associated
30 2008. Evolution of life histories, reproductive strate- can be found on the Symposium’s website (below) and
Symposium Website http://evodevo.uoregon.edu/symposium.html We are counting on a good deal of
word-of-mouth advertising for this symposium, so we
enjoyable symposium and hope that you can attend.
Symposium “Developments in Evolutionary Biology”
After the symposium Gerdien will be happy to meet
Travel directions: Symposium and reception are both
See also http://www.genomics.med.uu.nl/ ˜ ckovel/SymposiumGerdien.html
submit curriculum vitae and statement of research inThe selection procedure will include a symposium to terests, and have three letters of recommendation sent
servation’s Twelfth Annual Symposium American Mu- Website:
seum of Natural History April 26 and 27, 2007 bios and abstracts, glossary of terms, links to rehttp://cbc.amnh.org/symposia/microbes/ Symposium sources, etc., will all be posted to the CBC’s webTheme Microscopic organisms comprise the majority site: http://cbc.amnh.org/symposia/microbes/ CALL
of life on Earth–and we are discovering more all the FOR POSTERS: The symposium will include a poster
time. They play a multitude of roles in every ecosys- session. Details for content guidelines and abstracttem. While recent attention has focused on microbial submission requirements are available at http://involvement in spreading disease, many microorganisms cbc.amnh.org/symposia/microbes/. Deadline: Februare beneficial or even crucial to the sustainability of life; ary 1. SPECIAL STUDENT PRICING and EARLYand yet they may be threatened by human-induced en- BIRD DISCOUNTS!
vironmental change. This symposium brings together TO RECEIVE SYMPOSIUM UPDATES AS THEY
http://crossroads.uni-koeln.de/ and you may also register for the symposium and discussion groups at http://crossroads.uni-koeln.de/ We look forward to seeing you
ology” symposium organized by students of the Inter- individuals, nationally or internationally, to submit abnational Graduate School in Genetics and Functional stracts and/or attend. Early registration and abstract
is sponsoring a symposium entitled “Applications of
The conference, organized by Michel Veuille (Paris) and January. A brief description of the goals of the symposium are listed below.
Quaternary glaciations. Aim of this symposium is to
Sincerely, Richard Abbott (Symposium organizer)
463366 Email. rja@st-and.ac.uk Website: http://biology.st-and.ac.uk/staff/abbott.html BSS Symposium: History, Evolution & Future of Arctic and Alpine
Please note the following international symposium:
Please note the following international symposium:
Sincerely, Richard Abbott (Symposium organizer)
463366 Email. rja@st-and.ac.uk Website: http://biology.st-and.ac.uk/staff/abbott.html BSS Symposium: History, Evolution & Future of Arctic and Alpine
http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/ctr/ioesymposium.html
Sessions include but are not limited to topics in comBritish Ecological Society Annual Symposium
http://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/articles/meetings/current/2007annual symposium/
Call for participation to a symposium ESEB XI
evolutionary This symposium addresses research in a field where real
models, as well as statistical and empirical methods, symposium - Nicolas Gompel (Marseille, France), Hopi
changes in population demography. This symposium (Seattle, WA, USA) - and two of the plenary lectures
We would like the symposium on “Evolutionary genetchanges in life history, morphological and behavioural
If you are interested in participating to the sympo- submission, and the list of 30 symposia on differsium, there are opportunities for talks and posters. ent aspects of Evolutionary Biology (http://wwwPlease do send your application through the web portal conference.slu.se/eseb2007/symposia.html) which hold
We are happy to announce our first ’Crossroads in Biology’ symposium to be held in Cologne during 22-23
Symposium is open (http://crossroads.uni-koeln.de/- Randolph Nesse University of Michigan “Darwinian
To receive further information concerning the ’Crossroads in Biology’ Symposium please visit our webpage Paul Sherman Cornell University “Allergies and Can(http://crossroads.uni-koeln.de/). If you have further cers: Are the Complex Relationships Comprehensible?”
http://abstract on the symposium website:
genecenter.hunter.cuny.edu/evosymposium/
20th Annual International Symposium Center for Study
journal clubs, a fall symposium, a spring colloquium,
yearly symposium, and through six graduate fellowships that provide a significant stipend as well as research funds.
rect fieldwork experience in some of the most unique of unique interdisciplinary classes, symposium, conferand valuable aquatic ecosystems in the world. The ex- ences, and research and education activities of both naperience would be particularly useful for persons con- tional and international scope mentored by faculty from
Plan now to attend the 5th Annual Symposium Genes
Edinburgh SpeciationSymposium Aug30 . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
A symposium on ???Evolutionary Physiology of Mammals??? will be held as part of the 87th Annual Meeting of the American Society of Mammalogists in Albuquerque, New Mexico (6-10 June, 2007).
Date of symposium: Saturday, June 9th, 3:30-5:30 pm
A One Day Symposium by the Cambridge Systems Biology Centre
Balázs Papp, University of Manchester & BRC Szeged Museum of Comparative Zoology are pleased to anA systems approach to understand the condition de- nounce a symposium:
Edinburgh SpeciationSymposium
SPECIATION SYMPOSIUM; 30th August 2007; Edinburgh, UK
Speciation Symposium programme: www.systass.org/- Meeting will take place in Marseilles on September 1921.
biennial2007/symposia.shtml#speciation
2002) and MEEGID VIII (Bangkok, Thailand, November 2006). MEEGID IX will include 10-15 plenary lectures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “expressdebates” (20 mn presentation by only one speaker followed by 40 mn free discussion) and several poster sessions.
Special emphasis through plenary lectures and symposia will be given to health problems of particular
MEEGID IX Nairobi, Kenya. 30th October-1st Novem- interest to Africa: AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, sleepber 2008. Call for conferences/symposia proposals and ing sickness, ebola, cattle and crop pathogens. Plenary
lectures and symposia will also deal with transversal
ology and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Dis- symposia.
thematic symposia.
UK Research Councils Systematics Symposium (organisers Amanda Read, Sarah Collinge and Pete
http://www.chicagobotanic.org/school/symposia Or
Beth Pinargote, Symposium Coordinator, at
WHAT: PLANT BIOLOGY AND CONSERVATION parking and all symposium handouts.
STUDENT RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM WHERE: nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
ever Student Research in Plant Biology and Conservation Symposium especially for graduate and undergraduate students and postdocs. It will be held on Friday
STUDENT RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM WHERE: ing from genomics and molecular genetics to statistics
an abstract is needed and is to be submitted at regishttp://www.chicagobotanic.org/school/symposia The tration for the conference. A limited number of contributed papers will be selected for oral presentation in
need not be polished accounts of completed work: de- ConGen3: The 3rd biannual International Symposium
Meeting a new symposium has been organized on the
insect research. The aim of this symposium is to highis essential.
When: July 15, 2007-July 18, 2007 (Symposium-July
Registration is now open for the Seattle Showcase Symposium in Statistical Genetics at the University of
Symposium Announcement:
international symposium on the
This is a reminder that all abstracts and applications for bursaries for the INTERNATIONAL WORKRegards Richard Abbott (Symposium organizer)
attending the Yodzis Symposium in Guelph May 15, the demonstrated interests in problems of molecular evoluCanadian Society of Ecology and evolution meetings in tion. The working language in the laboratory is EnToronto May 18-20, and the European Society of Evo- glish. German skills are not essential.
offered as a stand-alone, post- conference activity associated with the 9th International Pollination Symposium being held at ISU June 24-28, 2007. Registration
for GenAlEx training is organized through the Pollination Symposium website but does not require registering for the Symposium itself. Attendees can register for individual workshop sessions, or for all sessions
SYMPOSIUM ON Fish Hybridization and Introgression - Evolutionary and Conservation Approaches
In this symposium, we plan to bring together experts
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: M.J. Collares-Pereira,
tion symposium
of both open sessions and focused thematic symposia. The official program of the International Apomixis
Speciation symposium confirmed speakers: Jim Mal- is now online:
UK Research Councils Systematics Symposium con- Cytogenetics and Genome Analysis Leibniz Institute of
Symposium Topics
weak consensus signals: RNA and DNA splicing in the Plan now to attend the 5th Annual “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 9,
For more information, visit the symposium website: Please share this announcement with colleagues and
http://www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html
www.bio.indiana.edu/facultyresearch/- Funding for this symposium is provided by Targeted
Johnson Dr. Michael Herman Kansas State Uni2007 AGA Genome Evolution Symposium:
www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html <http://KS 66506-4901 (785) 532-3482, www.ksu.edu/ecogen
www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html>
/bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/rja.htm BSS Symposium:
symposium.
WHAT: PLANT BIOLOGY AND CONSERVATION STUDENT RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM WHERE:
STUDENT RESEARCH SYMPOSIUM WHERE: CHICAGO BOTANIC GARDEN WHEN: JULY 6,
The Chicago Botanic Garden is pleased to host the first ever Student Research in Plant Biology and Conservaever Student Research in Plant Biology and Conserva- tion Symposium especially for graduate and undergradtion Symposium especially for graduate and undergrad- uate students and postdocs. It will be held on Friday
http://www.chicagobotanic.org/school/symposia Or
Beth Pinargote, Symposium Coordinator, at
http://www.chicagobotanic.org/school/symposia Or
contact Beth Pinargote, Symposium Coordinator, at
Registration is $29 and includes morning coffee, lunch, parking and all symposium handouts.
parking and all symposium handouts.
Next January 4-8 at the 2008 Pacific Symposium
Tandy Warnow. The session will focus on multiple SYMPOSIUM: MECHANISMS OF GENOME EVOsequence alignment and phylogeny estimation under LUTION
http://www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html
2007 AGA Genome Evolution Symposium:
www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html <http://Evolution...in the Era of Genomics.
www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html>
Website: www.symposium.lu/relicts
website: Klaus Lindpaintner, Marco Marra, John Mattick, Pewww.symposium.lu/relicts/
http://www.symposium.lu/relicts
to participate the international symposium ???Phylogeography and Conservation of Postglacial Relicts???
http://hgm2007.hugoPerspectives SYMPOSIA ? Public Population Project ? GTGHGM2007
8 Animal models 9 Disease modifiers 10 Protein Func- PLENARY SESSIONS SYMPOSIA
ConGen3: The 3rd biannual International Symposium
Evolving Biological Sciences), an annual three-day symposium aimed at addressing the retention of female scientists and issues related to the transition of women
Sincerely, Richard Abbott (Symposium organizer)
and teaching positions. The symposia will provide a
2007 symposium will be held at Packforest Conference
Georges Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon was most reThe programme for the international symposium on the sponsible for the rise of world-wide interest in natural
by parallel symposia. Papers will cover topics such as
following symposia:
1st Scientific Symposium of the Canadian Barcode of
The May symposium has open registration and
ESEB XI is held from 20 to 25 August 2007 in Uppsala, our (full-day) symposium has tentatively been
Deadline for early registration (reduced price) is April Symposium organisers: Renate Wesselingh, Université catholique de Louvain, Belgium (wessel30, 2007
(talks and posters) for the symposium *The Evolution
Symposium description: Sex chromosomes evolved recommunity...
Symposium description: The timing of the crucial transitions in a plant’s life (germination, onset of flowering) Invited speakers: Doris Bachtrog (San Diego) Antonio
environments. This symposium aims to bring together submission of abstracts. April 30th: Deadline for re-
Symposium organisers: Peter Arndt (MPI, Berlin)
Call for abstracts for a symposium on ’SOCIAL EVOLUTION IN MICROBES AND PARASITES’ at the
Symposium description: We will bring together researchers who have contributed to our expanding appreciation for the complexity of social interactions in
Symposium organisers: Ashleigh Griffin, University of available to other registrants). Please register as soon
If you are organizing a symposium it would be a good
2007 AGA Genome Evolution Symposium:
predictors associated with each GO class; (4) classiwww.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html <http://- fier combination methods to synthesize the information
www.theaga.org/agasymposium/index.html>
A Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing 2008 Session
Just a reminder that the 1st Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium is scheduled for Friday, April 20,
Featured speakers at the Symposium include: <http://www.nd.edu/%7Ebiology/romero-severson.shtml>
The Symposium will begin with refreshments at
A brochure with the symposium schedule is attached and is also available at our website, <http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium.shtml> http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium.shtml . Please register TODAY and plan to
Barcelona SMBE2008 Jun5-8 CallForSymposia . . . . . 2
paper or poster. Submission of abstracts and other relCallForSymposia
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA TOPICS–SMBE annual meetoral) require an Abstract.
for potential symposia topics.
Symposia proposals should include:
- A cover sheet including symposium title, with your
TION Symposium organizer: Roderic Guigı̈¿ 12 Invited
The SMBE 2008 meeting will organize around 25-30 Speaker: Cı̈¿ 2 dric Notredame. CRG, Spain. - EVOsymposia. Twelve have been suggested by the Organiz- LUTION OF GENE REGULATION Symposium orgaing Committee (attached list); the remaining symposia nizer: Elvira Juan Invited Speaker: Patricia J. Witwill be chosen from the current proposals. Each sympo- tkopp. University of Michigan, USA. - ANIMAL DOMESTICATION GENOMICS Symposium organizer:
Invited Speaker: Antonis Rokas. Vanderbilt Univerthe Symposium Organizers and approved by the Scisity, USA. - TRANSPOSABLE ELEMENTS: DIVERentific Committee. SMBE 2008 organizers will provide
partial support for each symposium.
ON HOST GENOMES Symposium organizer: Alfredo
the subject: SMBE 2008 Symposium Proposal. Dead- USA. - RNA WORLD: EMERGENCE OF LIFE ON
EARTH Symposium organizer: Mauro Santos - GEProposers will be notified of the committee’s decision NETICS AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY OF SPECIATION Symposium organizer: Lluı̈¿ 12 s Serra Invited
BABEL OF GENETICISTS AND PALEONTOLOChairs Carmen Segarra (Universitat de Barcelona) GISTS? Symposium organizer: Rafael Zardoya Invited
List of 12 symposia suggested by the Organizing Committee (see also http://www.smbe2008.com/sciprog.htm)
SYMPOSIA PROPOSED BY THE ORGANIZING
COMMITTEE - DROSOPHILA POPULATION GENOMICS Symposium organizer: Montserrat Aguadı̈¿ 12
LudwigMaximilians-Universitı̈¿ 12 t Mı̈¿ 12 nchen, Germany. GENOMICS FOR CROP EVOLUTION AND IMPROVEMENT Symposium organizer: Pere Arı̈¿ 21 s
HUMAN GENOMES Symposium organizer: Jaume
THEIR EVOLUTIONARY CONSEQUENCES Symposium organizer: Armando Caballero Invited Speaker:
Symposium 6, “Ecological and evolutionary genomics
The 11th International Coral Reef Symposium science
3. Mathematical models of biological, social, and eco- framework of a series of Mini- Symposia developed
THE FUTURE”. The Symposium goals are to provide
by the Mini-Symposium. The central topics of MiniSymposium 6 and the invited speakers are as follows:
in the Plaza area. The Symposium site hotel, the InterContinental, has completely sold out and rooms are
The “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium
on Sunday, November 11, at noon. The Symposium
code: Mini- Symposium 6. The deadline for abstract For complete registration, poster abstract and hotel information, please visit our Symposium websubmission is 15 November 2007.
formation, please visit: http://www.nova.edu/ncri/11icrs/ Mini-Symposium 6 Ecological and evolutionary We look forward to seeing you in Kansas City!
5th ANNUAL ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
> to attend the 2007 Ecological Genomics Symposium
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
Speciation Symposium, London 12-13 March 2008
The third Natural History Museum Speciation Symposium will be held from 1pm on 12 March to 3pm on 13
SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM: NETWORKS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
in a symposium focused on the study of networks in
ecology and evolutionary biology. This symposium will
In addition to the selected speakers, the symposium will
with the subject line: “Nominee for Early Career Scientists Symposium” or by mail to “Early Career Scientists
Symposium, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Travel directions: Symposium and reception are both
Symposium “Developments in Evolutionary Biology”
See also http://www.genomics.med.uu.nl/ ˜ ckovel/SymposiumGerdien.html
After the symposium Gerdien will be happy to meet
Dear Evoldir members, Please find enclosed the infor- Lake Tanganyika (The Natural History Museum, Lonmation the symposium “Biogeography - explaining and don)
http://web.mac.com/saskiamarijnissen/iWeb/Majimakubwa/Mini%20Symposium.html Best regards
SYMPOSIUM Thursday 25 October Zoological Museum Amsterdam (ZMA), Mauritskade 57, Amsterdam, Museum, University of Washington, Seattle)
and Duke University through seminars and symposia,
ConGen3: The 3rd biannual International Symposium
Fisheries Society of the British Isles Annual Symposium
ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
The Symposium will begin on Friday evening, November 9, at 7:00 pm and conclude on Sunday, November
11, at noon. The Symposium site is the InterContiApril 10 - 13, 2008, in Kansas City at the Marriott nental Hotel in Kansas City on the beautiful Country
Club Plaza. A brochure is available at our Symposium
Add your name to the Symposium mailing list, by send- spatial ecology”
If you have questions, please contact us at (785) 532ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Kansas 3482 or ecogen@ksu.edu. Additional information about
presentation at the Ecological Genomics Symposium,
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
Annual Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes Symposium Loretta Johnson and Dr. Michael Herman Doris Mer-
COMPUTATIONAL This offers a first circular for the symposium:
SYSTEMATICS, CPMS’2007 16-19 November symposium in Rostock, Germany, Oct. 10-12 2008
SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM: NETWORKS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
in a symposium focused on the study of networks in
ecology and evolutionary biology. This symposium will
with the subject line: “Nominee for Early Career Scientists Symposium” or by mail to “Early Career Scientists
Symposium, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
genetic basis of quantitative traits in natural populaANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
Add your name to the Symposium mailing list, by sending your contact information to dmerrill@k-state.edu.
Ecological Genomics Symposium on November 9 - 11,
Ecology in Genes Symposium will begin on Friday
hotel reservations, please visit our Symposium website,
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
Linnaeus 300 - The Future of his Science. An in“Coral reef health: Genomic approaches to the study ternational symposium on October 1 & 2 in Amsterdam highlighting Linnaeus’ formative years in Holland
Symposium on Relict Species, 18.-20. Oct. 2007, Luxembourg
www.symposium.lu/relicts (i) The final programme
AnimalEvoDevoSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
UIdaho CallForSSB Symposia Jun13-17 2009 . . . . . . 13
UIdahoMoscow SSE2009 Jun13-17 Call for Symposia
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium Apr4-6 deadline extended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Confirmed plenary and symposium speakers include:
There will be three full days of symposia and concurrent
Symposia will be held on the following topics:
(talks and posters) for the symposium “Molecular and
AnimalEvo-DevoSymposium
Evo-Devo symposium at the SMBE2008 Conference in
greater understanding of evolutionary change in developmental processes. This symposium aims to balance
Symposium description: The analysis of microbial and
Symposium organiser: Fernando Gonzalez-Candelas
cooperate or to cheat? This symposium captures the
basis of adaptation in experimental systems. The synthesis of these threads into a single symposium should
symposium is deliberately broad, and will encapsulate
Symposium organisers: Ed feil (Univ. Bath, UK), Eduardo Rocha (Institut Pasteur, France)
(talks and posters) for the symposium on prokaryotic
ISBE 2008 post-conference symposium, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA, August 15, 2008
Congress in 2008 at Cornell University offers an excellent opportunity for such a discussion, as full-day postcongress symposia are available for this purpose. With
for a possibility to organize a post-congress symposium,
are potentially willing to give a short talk in our symposium, please contact either Laszlo or Shinichi for more
symposia on Protist phylogenomics, Cell compartmen- Plenary lectures by:
facility, which is in Eatonton, Georgia. Eatonton is This is a scientific symposium aimed at graduate, postabout an hour east of Atlanta, and is easily accessible doctoral, and undergraduate researchers in the fields
SYMPOSIUM: NEW INSIGHTS FROM ARTHROPOD GENOMES April 11-13, 2008, Muehlbach Hotel
Symposium Aging: linking evolution with mechanisms
found at www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml or telephone 1-800-228-9290.
the Symposium. Abstract Guidelines can be found at
This symposium aims to bring together evolutionary www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml.
tional information are available at www.ksu.edu/agc/Invited speakers: Martin Ackermann (ETH Zurich, symposium.shtml . SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.kSwitzerland) Adam Antebi (Baylor College of Medicine, state.edu/agc/symposium.shtml
Rochester, USA) Scott D. Pletcher (Baylor College of SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The main symposium sesMedicine, Houston, USA) Marc Tatar (Brown Univer- sions will take place on Friday-Saturday, April 11-12.
to Tadeusz.Kawecki@unil.ch, with “Aging symposium: roundtable discussion with the ArthropodBase Consortalk submission” in the subject field. Deadline: March tium. Activities will conclude by noon on Sunday.
Symposium attendees are invited to participate in these
a symposium on the Genomics of Adaptation in Fish
symposium can be found at
http://fishbiologycongress8.usgs.gov/icbf8/symposia.htm#Schulte
North Carolina. Details and registration at https://www.agasymposium2008.org This meeting’s goal is to
explore and define the emerging field of behavioral genetics and genomics. The 2008 AGA symposium will
http://fishbiologycongress8.usgs.gov/index.htm Please feature 18 distinguished speakers, providing a kaleidoalso send an email to tymchuk@zoology.ubc.ca if you scope of recent discoveries with different organisms, enare interested in participating in this symposium.
Symposium April 28-29, 2008, at the Royal Ontario
Symposium of the Canadian Barcode of Life Network.
symposium.
The 2nd annual symposium of the Canadian Barcode
UIdaho CallForSSB Symposia
Call for 2009 SSB Symposia
for symposia at the 2009 SSB meeting to be held at the
Office: 780-492-3991; Fax: 780-492-9234 http://- of the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a
and (5) the proposed length of each talk. Symposia
are restricted to half-day sessions. The society is particularly interested in symposia whose topics do not
participation from young investigators and others typically under-represented in symposia. Limited funding
2009 Symposia will be announced at the SSB business
symposia. The Council particularly encourages proposals that include women, younger investigators and others traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day symposia at its meeting in June 2008. All applicants will
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on request. To be assured of full consideration,
Proposals can be sent as paper copies by mail or preferably as e-mail attachments in Word or RTF format (under subject heading: SSE Symposia Proposal).
Call for Symposia Proposals
Call for Symposia for 2009Annual Meeting
two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals should
include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Societysponsored symposium; and (4) a budget stating approximate travel (only) costs.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerging fields, fields ripe for syntheses, and fields different
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/registration.php A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is
A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is being planned.
Call for Symposia for 2009Annual Meeting
two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals should
include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Societysponsored symposium; and (4) a budget stating approximate travel (only) costs.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerging fields, fields ripe for syntheses, and fields different
2008. Please visit www.evolution2008.org < http://- symposia. The Council particularly encourages proposals that include women, younger investigators and othwww.evolution2008.org/ > for more information.
ers traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
of Evolution, the Society of Systematic Biologists, and The Council will select two proposals for half-day symposia at its meeting in June 2008. All applicants will
posters and talks is April 1, 2008. Participant registration should be completed by May 2, 2008 to qualify participants in sponsored symposia. Details are availfor discounted rates. Evolution 2008 is the premier an- able on request. To be assured of full consideration,
Proposals can be sent as paper copies by mail or preferOn behalf of the societies, the organizing committees, ably as e-mail attachments in Word or RTF format (unand the University of Minnesota, thank you for your der subject heading: SSE Symposia Proposal).
POSTERS: Please note that there is no specific affiliated poster session to this symposium.
However, we encourage poster submissions (at http://www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/) which diSSE SYMPOSIUM, EVOLUTION MEETINGS, Min- rectly and explicitly deal with molecular (genetic, physneapolis 2008 (June 20-24, 2008)
posium “MOLECULAR MECHANISMS UNDERLY- to our symposium page.
versity of Minnesota in Minneapolis. Details on regSYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Evolution by natural istration, accomodation, program, and online abstract
symposium will foster stimulating discussions among Evolutionary Biology. G. P. Wagner, ed. Academic
DETAILS on the symposium can be found at:
http://www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/symposia.html or at
INVITED SPEAKERS: Derek Roff (University of California), Paul Schmidt (University of Pennsylvania), SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Thomas Flatt (Brown
SSE SYMPOSIUM, EVOLUTION MEETINGS, Minneapolis 2008 (June 20-24, 2008)
of academic interests and career goals. The statement SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Evolution by natural
symposium will foster stimulating discussions among
DETAILS on the symposium can be found at:
http://www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/symposia.html or at
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Thomas Flatt (Brown
POSTERS: Please note that there is no specific af- Thomas Flatt, Ph.D. Brown University Division of Bifiliated poster session to this symposium.
you think that your poster is relevant to our symposium, please feel free to contact us with the title and
to our symposium page.
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium
UOregon.EvoDevo Symposium.Apr4-6
symposium.html
The symposium has been organized by the NSF
enjoyable symposium. We hope that you can attend!
ESEB2009 call for symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Roomate for Evolution Symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
in a symposium at the end of the internship. Interns
ESEB2009 call for symposia
Call for symposia
ESEB-members are invited to propose subjects for symposia during the XII Congress of ESEB. Proposals
motivation why the symposium is of interest to Evolutionary Biology. 3. A tentative list of possible invited Dear EvolDir members, I’m studying the phylogeograspeakers. 4. Names and addresses of the organisers phy of a sea urchin species by sequencing the entire
BAPS revealed the presence of three sympatric clusSymposia proposals should be sent to the follow- ters with maximum statistical support (P=1). To make
parallel symposia. About 25 symposia will be accepted. - use BEAST (rambaut & drummond et al) Mark
A symposium will typically consist of two-three invited Schultz Charles Darwin University C/- Arafura Timor
2008. Proposals for symposia and conference sessions
Roomate for Evolution Symposia
Symposium: Student Research in Plant Biology and
The Chicago Botanic Garden is pleased to host the second annual Student Research in Plant Biology and Conservation Symposium, especially for graduate and unRegistration to the conference is free, but attendance dergraduate students to present their research. While
http://www.chicagobotanic.org/school/symposia/ChicagoBotanicGarden
symposia SRPBC.php
3rd ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
Add your name to the Symposium mailing list, by send- <mailto:schilthuizen@yahoo.com>
and was virtually complete by the eighties2 ; in contrast, Gareth Nelson suggested that cladistics is suffering from 3 Arrested Development2 . This symposium,
A symposium celebrating 250 years of zoological
Symposia are 2.5hrs in length with a maximum of five
ics to Professor Alessandro Minelli. The symposium travel expenses (up to $900 for US-based speakers and
$1200 for non-US speakers). Symposia conveners do not
are not ASM members. Symposium propostion of zoological nomenclature over the past 250 years,
symposium represents a key opportunity to discuss all is available at: http://gm.asm.org/session-proposal/of the above issues.
Because the symposium is part of the 20th ICZ, registration is necessary, and possible at:
I hope you will consider proposing a symposium, and
We are now planning symposia for the 109th American Genetics Society Autumn Meeting, University of Bath,
tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “express- the animal systematic, phylogeny, phylogeography, and
pathogens. Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal
conferences and symposia.
Advances in Crustacean Phylogenetics Symposium
are all invited to participate in the Advances in Crustacean Phylogenetics International Symposium taking
feel confident that the symposium will be both interesting and provide new insights for all of us.
to attend the symposium, please email Rhonda Snook
ciation symposium” for a booking form. Registration
Union. Positions are still open and we encourage interSYMPOSIUM: CHALLENGES IN SPECIATION RESEARCH Graduate students and postdoctoral sci- ested students to apply. Details of the projects available
entists interested in the mechanisms of specia- can be found at www.speciation.group.shef.ac.uk/itn/tion are invited to a symposium organised by Project descriptions.pdf) along with details for applythe SPECIATION Initial Training Network (see ing. This is an exciting opportunity for cutting edge
Registration open: 19th International Symposium of
goal of this symposium will be to canvass modern
http://www.symposium.lu/hotspots/default.aspx
Call for contributions Symposium on Biodiversity of island biotas, experimental/theoretical community
join us for a very special symposium. Paul Nurse will Want to find out first hand what’s going on in
the symposium http://www.jic.ac.uk/centenary/events/historyofgenetics/programme.htm < http://www.jic.ac.uk/centenary/events/historyofgenetics/programme.htm > , and if you have ever worked
at JI there is an Alumni Day following the symposium where you can meet up with old friends.
CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM:
in a symposium focused on using phylogenies to address
ecological questions. This symposium will be held in
for ECSS2 or by mail to 3 Early Career Scientists Symposium, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, 2019 Natural Science Bldg., 830 North University, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-10482 . More information is
SYMPOSIUM:
The Symposium “Statistical Genetics of Livestock for
animals. The symposium will be structured around
The symposium will feature an outstanding list of invited speakers!
International symposium:
are available. This symposium explores the new possibilities for genetic conservation opened up by the latest
Symposium co-chairs
The Symposium organization acknowledges funding
This symposium is organized by the working group Biodiversity within the Animal Breeding and Genomics
data at workshops, symposia, and other scientific meetings.
. Interacting with the student during some mealtimes, SYMPOSIUM TOPICS
SYMPOSIUM TOPICS Animal domestication ge- since 1899, it has been held every five years in different
< https://space! Theory and inference in spatial population ge- www2.kit.de/downloads/ICG Symposia.pdf > https:/netics RNA world: Emergence of life on earth Spon- /www2.kit.de/downloads/ICG Symposia.pdf
“The Fourth International Conference on the Comparative Biology of the Monocotyledons & The Fifth International Symposium on Grass Systematics and Evolution”
cussions and presentations at this meeting may influThis is a scientific symposium aimed at graduate, post- ence the future development of the PhyloCode.
SYMPOSIUM: NEW INSIGHTS FROM ARTHROPOD GENOMES
February 29. A few platform presentations will be choArthropod Genomics Symposium, April 11 - 13, 2008,
downloaded at www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml.
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The main symposium sespresentation on use of the Apollo Genome Annotasions will take place on Friday-Saturday, April 11-12.
John Kenneth Colbourne, Indiana University, Preserva- and community curation. Symposium attendees are intion, expansion and invention of crustacean genes with vited to participate in these additional events.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
INFORMATION: Contact Doris Merrill at dmerrill@k- 2008 in Madison, Wisconsin, USA. This symposium will
analysis of C. elegans and its congeners, and of comSYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-state.edu/agc/- parative work with other model nematodes (e.g. Pristionchus, Oscheius, Heterorhabditis). The session is a
symposium.shtml
tionary genetics and genomics * experimental evoluSYMPOSIUM FUNDING: Symposium funding pro- tion * ecologically important traits (chemotaxis, learnvided by the Center for Genomic Studies on Arthro- ing, resistance, etc.) * genetic variation: population
Speciation Symposium, London 12-13 March 2008
Evolving Biological Sciences), an annual three-day symposium aimed at addressing the retention of female sciRoyal Society Discussion Meeting: Statistical and comentists and issues related to the transition of women
inaugural WEBS symposium in October 2007 was a
and teaching positions. The symposia provide a forum
for developing professional networks. The 2008 symposium will be held at the Pack Forest Conference center
Carpathian flora just few metres from the symposium
symposium web page www.guarant.cz/iopb2008
Following the symposium there will be a possibility to
The 2008 symposium in the Vysoke Tatry Mts. is
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/registration.php A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is
well as weekly seminars, discussion groups and a research symposium. The program covers the cost of
sium. The 30 minute symposium presentations will
2 and Sunday, August 3. To promote interaction between symposium speakers and participants, there are
A ONE DAY SYMPOSIUM “SPECIATION IN MOL-
day symposium “Speciation in Molluscs” to coincide
for presentations in a symposium “Contributions of genetic principles and technology to sustainable fisheries:
in contributing to this symposium by January 8, 2008.
For further information regarding the symposium and
contacts for submission of titles, please contact symposium conveners Chris Wilson (Chris.Wilson@nrdpfc.ca)
Symposium outline: Populations of most fish species
and overcome stressors that threaten sustainable fisheries. This symposium will develop several conceptual
15 scheduled symposia. The 11th symposium, entitled
communications for one of the four sessions of this symposium.
Symposium XI (T. De Meeis, M. Tibayrenc): Population Genetic Structure & Molecular Epidemiology.
the organisation of the symposium.
The Yale Symposia on Evolution in Health and Disease will take place on February 21st and April 17th in
www.yale.edu/evomedsymposia Please also call this to
addresses and symposium talks, are now available on Developpement, France (Integrated Evolutionary Epidemiology: Where are We Now?) Nathan Wolfe, Unithe meeting website.
Congress on Molecular Epidemiology and Evolutionary ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
J. Ayala (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Univer- Plan now to attend the 6th Annual “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 14,
evolution phenomena are particularly encouraged. All for the 2008 Symposium include the following:
This e-mail is to inform you that the next International Symposium on Littorinid Biology and Evolution
Funding for this symposium is provided by Targeted
GABBA (Graduate Program in Areas of Basic and Ap9th International Conference on Ancient DNA and As- plied Biology) Annual Symposium written in the botsociated Biomolecules Pompeii, Italy, 19-22 October tom of this email. Remember that this year, this event
Symposium on sexual selection, sperm competition and
Everybody is welcome to attend, and more information On behalf of the organizing committee for the 9th Inwill follow in due time. Please forward this message to ternational Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium to
9th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium - Vienna, August 24th - 27th 2008
proposal review system, and to coordinate other Cen- Research experience (first-authored publications in ter activities, including Darwin Day and other symposia
Villanova PA MendelSymposium Sep21-23 . . . . . . . . .12
hesitate to go on: http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evolThere is still time to register for the AGA Symposium,
a special accommodation rate for Symposium participants, but you must reserve by MAY 4th. Register by
www.agasymposium2008.org
and Applied Biology) Annual Symposium, which this
www.agasymposium2008.org agajoh@oregonstate.edu
A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Hered- recombination. This conference will immediately preity is being planned and all presenters will have the cede the 2008 Evolution meeting taking place in nearby
A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredfinal schedule of 45 talks is available at:
“Communication and cooperation - from genes to behaviour”. A symposium in honour of Hubert “Jim”
tlewood, Alessandro Minelli, Vaughan Southgate on beThis interdisciplinary symposium will bring together half of The Linnean Society
symposium. There are time slots reserved for oral con- find it helps in understanding the development of the
This symposium is meant to celebrate the 70th birth- Palazzo del Bò, Archivio Antico will link the meeting to
Villanova PA MendelSymposium
9th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium - Vienna, August 24th - 27th 2008
Mendel Symposium Featuring Sean B. Carrol, Dan
ternational Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium to interdisciplinary academic symposium, will be held on
submit abstracts of your latest work. The conference symposium as part of its campus-wide celebration to
ciplinarity. Accordingly, this symposium will include a
Registration for the symposium is free.
610Mendel in the 21st Century Symposium at Villanova:
http://www.villanova.edu/mendelsymposium/
two-day symposium for Evolutionary Biologists work
Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Ecological Genomics Symposium, November 14 - 16, 2008, at the InterContinental Hotel on the Plaza in Kansas City.***
Arlington ParasiteEvolutionSymposia Jun27-30 . . . . . 2
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 BarcodeSymposia . . . . 3
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 NetworkEvolutionSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
ParasiteEvolutionSymposia
three symposia that address the evolutionary biology
UMichigan EarlyCareerScientistsSymposium Mar15 18
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium Apr4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Symposia ASP President’s Symposium: “Lessons from
Special Symposium: “Evolutionary Ecology of HostEcto-Parasite Interactions” organized by Dale Clayton
Special Symposium: “Population genetics of parasites: from geography to genes” organized by Charles
BarcodeSymposia
SYMPOSIUM TOPICS
stracts (talks and posters) for the symposium What
of human and pathogen interactions Evolutionary radiations and molecular phylogeny Genetics and molecSymposium description: The number of formally de- ular biology of speciation Genome variation: Lessons
an update. The aim of this symposium would be to phylogenomics Molecular and evolutionary epidemiolclarify the current progress and limitation of barcoding ogy Molecular phylogeography and population genetand its methodologies. The symposium would attempt ics Network evolution and systems biology Popgen in
Symposium organisers: Axel Meyer (University of Konstanz, Germany) Stphane Hemmerter (University of
NetworkEvolutionSymposium
Evolution and Systems Biology symposium at the
SMBE2008 Conference June 5-8 in Barcelona. A description of the symposium follows. Please note our
SYMPOSIUM TOPICS Animal domestication ge- turn shape the underlying molecular networks. Recent
investigation, and the proposed symposium will feature
Indeed, a novel aspect of our proposed symposium is
Walter M. Fitch Symposium has provided a forum for are the most compelling and most tractable.
networks and systems: from single cell to complex in Ghent, 29 July-1 August 2008. The scientific proorganism, and from metabolism to ecosystem Elliott gram will consist of plenary sessions, symposia, conMeyerowitz, CalTech Confirmed Eric Mjolsness, UC tributed talks and a poster session, see our website:
*Symposia:* *-Development as bridge between micro4:30 Wine and cheese in foyer of Grace Auditorium and macroevolution *Organizer(s): Jukka Jernvall
VENUE: The symposium venue, the 1000 year-old castle Altes Schloss Dornburg near Jena, will help to create
PARTICIPANTS: The symposium will be open for a
limited number of participants: 21 invited contribuInternational symposium: NONBILATERIAN ANI- tors and 45 assorted participants representing graduate
SYMPOSIUM RATIONALE: Study of the early evolution of multicellular animals (Metazoa) holds the key to
fully sponsored NAMO2008 symposium (final funding
for further information and our symposium poster.
Genomics Symposium. Abstract Guidelines can be Contributions to Genome Annotation” will feature a
found at www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml. Febru- presentation on use of the Apollo Genome Annotaary 29 is also the deadline to receive discounted early tion Curation Tool by Dr. Chris Elsik (BeeBase). On
plete information with links for registration and hotel meeting, arthropod genome database and bioinformatreservations can be downloaded at www.ksu.edu/agc/- ics tool developers will be available for individual trainsymposium.shtml.
SYMPOSIUM: NEW INSIGHTS FROM ARTHROPOD GENOMES April 11-13, 2008, in Kansas City
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The main symposium sessions will take place on Friday-Saturday, April 11-12.
and community curation. Symposium attendees are invited to participate in these additional events.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
INFORMATION: Contact Doris Merrill at dmerrill@kstate.edu or 785-532-3482. To receive future Symposium announcements, send your contact information to
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE:
symposium.shtml
Speciation Symposium, London 12-13 March 2008
www.agasymposium2008.org agajoh@oregonstate.edu
1st International Symposium to be held in Rostock,
international symposium on Advances in Crustacean
Phylogenetics. The symposium will take place from
1st International Symposium to be held in Rostock,
international symposium on Advances in Crustacean
Phylogenetics. The symposium will take place from
In addition to the open sessions, the 2008 conference will feature: Pre-symposium keynote lectures
EcoleNationale de Formation The Symposium for Women Entering Ecology and EvoAgronomique BP22687 2route de Narbonne 31326Cas- lution Today (SWEEET) is now open for registration
The 4thmeeting in Ecology & Behaviour is mostly or- early career scientists. The goal of this symposium is to
Group-living, Conflicts and Cooperation - J. Krause track. This symposium will to address this gap by idenBehaviour and Cognition - N. Clayton & M. Giurfa tifying concrete tips and tools for getting an academic
EarlyCareerScientistsSymposium
Scientists Symposium. This one-day symposium is focused on the topic of NETWORKS IN ECOLOGY
AND EVOLUTION. It is truly an international symposium with our 10 speakers coming from 5 different
The symposium includes keynote talks by ANDREAS
to evolution. Symposia, concurrent talks, and posters
to evolution. Symposia, concurrent talks, and posters
about the 2008 NSF IGERT Symposium on Evolution,
Questions may be directed to Heather Dorr (cce- The symposium will be held in Eugene, Oregon at the
/evodevo.uoregon.edu/symposium.html The sympoparticipation.
to an intellectually stimulating and enjoyable symposium. We hope that you can attend!
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium
Charlotte Faurie & Michel Raymond Conference orUOregon.EvoDevo Symposium.Apr4-6
evodevo.uoregon.edu/symposium.html
forward to an intellectually stimulating and enjoyable and extinction events. Joining these competences provides a powerful frame to predict the evolution of biosymposium. We hope that you can attend!
Arnaud-Haond <sarnaud@ifremer.fr> or Janine Olsen The Yale Symposia on Evolution in Health and Disease
tatively and quantitatively, the ability of populations http://www.yale.edu/evomedsymposia
LOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM: Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes
present their research project at a one-day symposium.
CornellU Female mate choice symposium . . . . . . . . . . . 4
This year’s annual symposium of the Royal Dutch Zoological Society will focus on sexual conflict throughout the animal kingdom. The aim is to provide an
One-day symposium “Sexual Conflict”
with the subject “sexual conflict symposium” to desiree.hoonhout@falw.vu.nl before 5 May.
symposium
annual International Symposium at the University of
nity to organize symposia on the last day of the conParasites as Agents of Selection in Fish: from genes to ference to discuss specific issues in behavioral and evoecosystems
Parasites are increasingly recognised by biologists as symposium on variation in female choice and contextimportant mediators of ecological interactions and dependent female choice. The goal of this symposium is
and communities. This meeting addresses some of the and would like to contribute to this symposium, please
symposia planned (see below), together with sessions
Symposia and Minisymposia
International Symposium “Biodiversity
to invite you for a new symposium about “biodiversity hotspots” (in March 26-28 2009). We will discuss
All details are given on our symposium-website
www.symposium.lu/hotspots/ We are looking foreward to see you in March 2009!
A ONE DAY SYMPOSIUM “SPECIATION IN MOLLUSCS”
day symposium ÂÂSpeciation in MolluscsÂÂ to coin- speakers, there will be an opportunity for platform precide with the Annual General Meeting of the Society. sentations from participants who submit abstracts.
www.agasymposium2008.org agajoh@oregonstate.edu
a symposium in entitled “Interdisciplinary approaches
to the general theme of the symposium. Therefore, interdisciplinary work as well as approaches dealing with
The organizers of Symposium S18: Roger Arditi, Jorge
www.agasymposium2008.org agajoh@oregonstate.edu
On May 1 & 2 we will be having a symposium on evolution here at the Rockefeller University. The symposium
A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is being planned and all presenters will have the
between life and mind . Philosophical, ethical, and cul- The second of two Yale Symposia on Evolution in
Several artificial life “themes” have been proposed as Admission is free. No registration is required. A relive research topics around which conference sessions ception will be held in the Medical History Library folmay organise. See www.alifexi.org/themes for full de- lowing the Symposium courtesy of the Department of
You can get details on the program at the symposium Health Charles Lockwood, Professor of Obstetrics, Gyweb site:
necology, and Reproductive Sciences Stephen Malawhttp://www.yale.edu/evomedsymposia For the orga- ista, Professor of Medicine Paul Turner, Associate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
two-day symposium for Evolutionary Biologists work
Symposia” being coordinated to celebrate the 200th
birth date of Charles Darwin http://www.iubs.org/newiubs/products/Darwin%20200%20Symposia.pdf
200 Symposia” is to celebrate the impact of Darwin’s
symposia and satellite meetings taking place on five
Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes Symposium at a
The Symposium will begin on Friday evening, November 14, and conclude on Sunday, November 16, at noon.
The Symposium site is the InterContinental Hotel in
complete registration, hotel and poster abstract information, please visit our Symposium website, http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2008 .
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Genes in -Patrick Phillips, Center for Ecology and Evolution-
gene pathway sensitivity estimation by photothermal GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Kansas City,
Symposium website: www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2008
Symposium Organizing Committee:
6th ANNUAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
The Symposium will begin on Friday evening, November 14, and conclude on Sunday, November 16, at noon.
The Symposium site is the InterContinental Hotel in
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas 11/15/08 Registration
The e-Biosphere 09 Conference will be an exSymposium Organizing Committee:
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “express- EHBEA aims to provide a genuinely interdiscidebates” (a 20-min presentation by a single speaker fol- plinary European research forum representing the main
psychology, cultural evolution and related subdisciSpecial emphasis through plenary lectures and symposia will be given to health problems of particular interest to mediterranean and tropical countries: AIDS,
pathogens. Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal
for conferences and symposia.
KansasCity GenomicsSymposium Nov14-16 . . . . . . . . . 4
StonyBrook Darwin09Symposium Nov5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . 9
SYMPOSIUM: STUDENT RESEARCH IN PLANT
ond annual Student Research in Plant Biology and Conservation Symposium, especially for graduate and un- store main.jsp?STOREID5&SINGLESTORE=true
http://www.chicagobotanic.org/school/symposia/symposia SRPBC.php
Registration is now open for the “Symposium on the
KansasCity GenomicsSymposium
Ecological Genomics Symposium, 11/14/08-11/16/08
Registration is now open to attend the 6th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium on November 14 - 16,
RNAs), Non-Mendelian Inheritance (including trans- Ecology in Genes” Symposium will begin on Friday
tecture of Genome Sequence (and what we are learning hotel reservations, please visit our Symposium website,
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
Keynote speaker: Paulien Hogeweg < http://wwwSymposium Organizing Committee:
host a special symposium on Drosophila Taxonomy,
Evolution and Genetics. This symposium will be held
session. Details can be found at: https:// stockcenter.ucsd.edu/info/workshopschedule2008.php#Symposium
lated to “native fishes propagation, stocking and genetic management” for the Colorado River Basin Science and Resource Management Symposium to held in
StonyBrook Darwin09Symposium
The National Science Foundation has officially approved the proposal for a symposium on the status of
http://darwin09.org/ Registration is not open yet, but October - 1 November 2008 http://www.th.ird.fr/it will soon, and we will announce it through evoldir and site meegid/menu.htm SYMPOSIUM ON DNA BARrelated outlets. Please, mark your calendars and plan CODING
tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “expressdebates” (a 20-min presentation by a single speaker folConfirmed Speakers
pathogens. Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal
conferences and symposia.
eling, and bioinformatics are welcome. They can report 2002) and MEEGID VIII (Bangkok, Thailand, Novemon the host, the pathogen, or the vector for vector- ber 2006). MEEGID IX will include 10-15 plenary lecborne diseases. Papers considering host + pathogen tures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “expressor pathogen + vector (co-evolution) are particularly debates” (a 20-min presentation by a single speaker folencouraged. All pathogens are within the scope of lowed by 40 min of free discussion) and several poster
Irvine): (i) Evolution of malaria; (ii) Darwin’s Revolupathogens. Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal
for conferences and symposia.
This is a reminder that registration for the 6th Annual Ana L. Caicedo, Ph.D. Assistant Professor 221 MorSymposium in Plant Biology at the University of Mas- rill Science Center phone: (413) 545-0975 Biology
The symposium will occur on Saturday, October 18,
2008, 9 am to 6 pm. The annual UMass PB symposium
Online registration is available through the symposium CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM:
http://www.bio.umass.edu/plantbio/symposium08.html We hope you can join us for
in a symposium focused on using phylogenies to address
ecological questions. This symposium will be held in
All research related to the use of phylogenetic informa2008 PB SYMPOSIUM PRESENTERS:
for ECSS2 or by mail to 3 Early Career Scientists Symposium, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, 2019 Natural Science Bldg., 830 North University, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-10482 . More information is
Symposium on sexual selection, sperm competition &
The symposium will be a whole-day affair, with talks
19.30 - 20.30 h Tram Apéro 20.30 - 24 h Symposium
Mark your calendar for the 2009 American Genetic Association Symposium:
Change” June 8 - 11, 2009 Brown University Provi- Symposia themes are: * On the origins of life and
Further details and a link to the Symposium website
October - 1 November 2008 http://www.th.ird.fr/site meegid/menu.htm SYMPOSIUM ON DNA BARCODING
2002) and MEEGID VIII (Bangkok, Thailand, November 2006). MEEGID IX will include 10-15 plenary lectures, about 20 specialized symposia, 12-15 “expressdebates” (a 20-min presentation by a single speaker followed by 40 min of free discussion) and several poster
Special emphasis through plenary lectures and symposia will be given to health problems of particular interest to mediterranean and tropical countries: AIDS,
pathogens. Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal
conferences and symposia.
We hope you can join us for our 6th Annual Symposium
The symposium is an initiative of the Plant Biology
from attendees. The symposium is FREE and includes
symposium and poster session. Online registration is
available through the symposium webpage: http://www.bio.umass.edu/plantbio/symposium08.html For
2008 PB SYMPOSIUM PRESENTERS:
Symposium on sexual selection, sperm competition &
The symposium will be a whole-day affair, with talks
20 h - 24 h Symposium Dinner
IowaCity SMBE 2009 Jun3-7 NextGenerationSeqSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Portland SSE 2010 CallForSymposia Jun25-29 . . . . . 10
UIowa SMBE2009 SymposiumEpigenetics Jun3-7 . . 24
UIowa SMBE2009 SymposiumEvolutionNetworks
The American Genetic Association 2009 Symposium
We would like to invite you to the Charles Darwin Symposium 2009: Charles Darwin’s contribution to science
Official symposium website: http://www.cdu.edu.au/Program:
September 2009 Charles Darwin Symposium:
This Symposium will provide an opportunity to appreciate, debate, and even challenge Darwin’s findings, and
About the Charles Darwin Symposium:
Charles Darwin Symposia are an initiative of the
The symposia are designed to encourage lively and informed debate on issues of importance to all Territorians. Through the symposia, the University seeks to
The organisers of the symposia invite community leaders, academics and other experts from across the nation
focus of each symposia.
The symposium is free to attend, however we request
NextGenerationSeqSymposium
Submissions of abstracts for oral and poster presentations are now open for the symposium on
DESCRIPTION OF THE SYMPOSIUM: Over the
For the innovation, the number and the variety of involved areas, we propose a symposium dedicated to unravel the impact of next-generation sequencing on evolutionary biology. The aim of the symposium will be
Such a symposium will be intersecting and complementary to other already accepted symposia (e.g. Mutation
for oral and poster presentations for the symposium on
theme of the symposium are particularly encouraged
would also like to invite all the other evolutionary biologists to come to this symposium during the SMBE2009
Symposium Description:
in biological evolution. A symposium about the relaJun3-7
symposium, the roles played by the environment and
know might be interested in this symposium but not
3rd ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
Symposium and Friday evening. Activities will conclude by noon on Sunday, June 14.
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
and Aquaria (EAZA) we wish to extend a cordial invitaVENUE: The symposium will take place at the histion to participate in the “7th International Conference
your name to the Symposium mailing list, by sending http://www.izw-berlin.de/de/flink/7thIZWConference.html < http://www.izw-berlin.de/de/your contact information to dmerrill@k-state.edu.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
The symposium will provide an opportunity to review
Symposium: The importance of being small: does size
->scientific program ->Symposia)
their research in a diverse, low-key environment! StuThis symposium is based around the hypothesis of dents may register for either oral or poster presentaeverything-is-everywhere (EisE) amongst small organ- tions; sessions will be organized according to submisisms. This hypothesis was proposed at the beginning of sion content, but past years’ ENEBCs have featured
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Societysponsored symposium; and (4) a statement that all potential speakers have been contacted and agree to participate in the symposium.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerging fields, fields ripe for syntheses, and fields different
symposia. The Council particularly encourages proposals that include women, younger investigators and others traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day symposia at its meeting in June 2009. All applicants will
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on request. To be assured of full consideration,
heading: SSE Symposia Proposal). Please expect and
Portland SSE 2010 CallForSymposia
two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals should
include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
Royal Entomological Society International Symposium
The symposium on insect immunity, organized by Stuart Reynolds (Bath, UK) and Jens Rolff (Sheffield, UK)
Royal Entomological Society International Symposium
A special symposium on is running in the mornings:
The symposium on insect immunity, organized by Stuart Reynolds (Bath, UK) and Jens Rolff (Sheffield, UK)
from the American Genetic Association, but we encourage additional sponsorship inquiries. A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is planned.
talks and for travel awards will be April 16th, with symposia-related and general-topic sessions. However,
functional & comparative genomics * Reproductive pro1. When submitting an abstract, please select the tein function & evolution * Sex-specific demography usmost appropriate symposium or general session for ing the X * Teaching molecular evolution * Types of
/ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/symposia.php for up-todate summaries of the SMBE 2009 symposia, includ- On behalf of the organizers, we’ll see you soon in Iowa
neatly into one of the symposia or general sessions, –
three general (non-symposium-associated) contributed University of Iowa Department of Biology 319 335 1082
may be added to the program. 4. Some symposiumassociated contributed sessions, if under- subscribed, email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu> web < http://will include talks on general topics. 5. We will consider ccg.biology.uiowa.edu><http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu
nary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
We anticipate that 300-400 poster contributions will be SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Multicellular animals
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and
* Molecular arms races * Molecular basis of specia- relatives. Several new animal genomes have been pubtion * Molecular evolution of biological complexity * lished in the last year alone. This symposium will
of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa The SMBE 2009 scientific program will include 4 pleState University, 343A Bessey Hall, Ames, IA nary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and
the Fitch Symposium will automatically receive a travel
prize who are not selected for the Fitch symposium
population and community structure. This symposium
will complement another symposium “The evolution of
Submission of abstracts for oral and poster presentations is open for the symposium on
3-7, 2009). Please see the symposium description below. Empirical studies using network approaches are
complementary to the theme of the symposium and are
an oral presentation of your work at this symposium,
“Biological networks from genes to populations: Applications & analytical approaches” symposium description:
symposium will cover active areas of evolutionary research focusing on the development of new methods to
estimate realistically complex networks, the formal description of these networks, and models of network formation and function. The symposium will accommodate talks ranging from the theoretical to the empirical
Submission for abstracts for oral and poster presentations are open for the symposium on
tions are now open for the symposium on
Primate Functional & Comparative Genomics Symposium Description: The amount of primate sequence SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: The accumulation of
human traits? This symposium will present current re- diversity. Answering these questions require that we
tational and experimental approaches to examine the greatly enhanced our understanding of this fundamenorigin and functional impact of species-specific changes tal process. This symposium will bring together the
submit abstracts for the symposium on
Symposium Description: By many measures, insects
been derived from analyses of insect taxa. This symposium will focus on emerging topics in insect evolutionary genomics. Our goal is to provide a forum in
symposia.php?action=view&sym ID=8
This is an renewed invitation to participate in a symposium on the origin of species at SMBE 2009 (Iowa
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: With the recent availability of full genome sequences in several pairs of
selection may actually favor introgression. This symposium will present the depth of scholarship and the
Symposium website include links to speakers’
(http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/symposia.php?action=3Dview&sym ID=3D5)
Visit the meeting website (http://smbe2009.org) for presentation of your work at this symposium but have
Contact info: Johan Lindell <johan.lindell@ebc.uu.se> come to this symposium during the SMBE2009 meetDepartment of Evolutionary Biology, Uppsala Univer- ing, particularly if you have had enough fun in the innumerable parties for Darwin this year and are wondering
Symposium Description:
adaptation to environment, and diseases (like the ocSymposiumEpigenetics Jun3-7
in biological evolution. A symposium about the relaHello all,
symposium, the roles played by the environment and
tions is open for the symposium on
7, 2009). Please see the symposium description be- can the environment affect a genomes epigenetic state?
theme of the symposium are particularly encouraged subsequent phenotypic changes inheritable? (4) What
know might be interested in this symposium but not that share homologous genes. The expression pattern
In this symposium, we shall address the evolution of
SymposiumEvolutionNetworks
environment. The timing of this symposium is quite
symposium where the evolutionary context of many
The description of the symposium is below. We would
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/symposia.php?action=3Dview&sym ID=3D3
This is an invitation to participate in a symposium
So, whats the best way to incorporate Molecular Evolution into our students overall evolutionary biology education? This SMBE symposium will explore this question by bringing together speakers who teach molecular evolutionary principles in courses ranging from Introductory Biology to specialized courses in Molecular Evolution. In addition, we will include speakers
Career Scientists Symposium to held at the University
The Symposium examines how phylogenies have been
of ecological communities. The symposium participants
network.nature.com/people/henrygee/blog/2008/05/01/themarch-of-the- mighty-molecule. Accessed Dec. 29, symposium will also include an open mike discussion,
Further information about the symposium, and registration is available at the following web site:
Symposium: Statistical Genetics of Livestock in the
The web site of the symposium “Statistical Genetics of
We are holding a major symposium on evolution here
the symposium, including Jack Horner, Randy Moore,
Dr. Kent Weigel and Dr. Guilherme Rosa Symposium
The Symposium organization acknowledges funding
KansasCity GenomicsSymposium,Nov13-15 . . . . . . . . . 2
GenomicsSymposium,Nov13-15
Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 13, 14, &
Symposium and we encourage you to attend! ConGrants available to support the participation of firmed speakers include the following:
Funding for this symposium is provided by the National EUROCORES Programme on The Evolution of CoopScience Foundation and Targeted Excellence at Kansas eration and Trading (TECT), coordinated by the EuroState University.
your presentation. For late inclusion in a specific symposium, please inquire with the organizers.
available on a first come, first served basis. Attendance have about 15 symposia and workshops, published in
Evolution & Medicine Symposium
The focus for the symposium is a celebration of the bicentenary of Darwin’s birth and the fundamental role
symposium will reflect on the various areas of societal concerns and needs related to human health and
This symposium celebrates 200 years of Darwin’s birth evolutionary biology and medicine, and there will be
edge the generous support of the European Human Be- This symposium is free to attend, but registration will
**Reminder for BIOT-2009 Symposium deadlines**
Symposium. However, based on the response we have
at: http:// www.biotconf.org/ BIOT-2009, the 6th Annual Biotechnology & Bioinformatics Symposium October 9-11, 2009 at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE. http://www.biotconf.org/ The 6th Annual
Biotechnology & Bioinformatics Symposium, BIOT2009, will showcase research and development activities
ular evolution, phylogeny, and phylogenomics EducaSymposium Co-Chairs: Etsuko Moriyama School of Bi- tion in computational biology and bioinformatics
Symposium Co-Chairs: Etsuko Moriyama School of Biemoriyama2@unlnotes.unl.edu
**Reminder for BIOT-2009 Symposium deadlines**
Symposium. However, based on the response we have
nual Biotechnology & Bioinformatics Symposium October 9-11, 2009 at the University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE. http://www.biotconf.org/ The 6th Annual
Biotechnology & Bioinformatics Symposium, BIOT2009, will showcase research and development activities
www.darwin200.edu.uy . The event will include plenary lectures, symposia and poster sessions.
Symposia (chairs * )
Perth BehaviourEvolution Oct2 SymposiaCall . . . . . . 8
A symposium in honor of Richard G. Harrison.
A symposium in honor of Richard G. Harrison.
On Monday, November 30^th , the one-day sympoPh.D. course: Ph.D. students can attend the confer- sium /Through the Looking Glass/ will be held at muence as a 5 ECTS Ph.D. course. Students will receive a seum Naturalis in Leiden. In this symposium, the gecompendium with original research articles on current netics, development, evolution, and ecology of asymresearch within the topic. They will further be required metry and mirror images in animals and plants will
Funding: Funding from Nordic and EU sources are contrast to earlier messages, the symposium is free .
and other model organisms. The symposia of our meet- Unidade de Investigação em Eco-etologia and Centro
SymposiaCall
ISBE 2010 in Perth (Western Australia): Call for symposia The organising Committee for the 13th International Behavioural Ecology Congress 2010 invite you to
submit Symposia Topics for sessions following the main
Integrating Genetic and Cultural Approaches to Language - CEE 2010 Symposium Date: Friday, 26th
Please find below details of a one-day symposium at
Description: This symposium will ask how the diverse
rate). The symposium only has 65 places remaining.
http://sites.google.com/site/cee2010symposium/ McGraw Hill have given us a £100 Amazon voucher for
the best student poster. http://sites.google.com/site/cee2010symposium/poster-submission Best regards,
http://psychology.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/index.html Symposium support: The Centre for Ecology and Evolution
Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis, Chris Owen, Alex PyThe following one-day symposium may be of inter- ron, Sara Ruane, Hojun Song, Gavin Svenson, Jessica
This is a one-day symposium.
Latsis Symposium: Darwin’s legacy A symposium in
Further information can be obtained by email from 2 courses PhD) - Annual research symposium - orDr Jennifer Seddon (j.seddon1@uq.edu.au) or Dr Jenny ganized by graduate students, funded by university Funding to present research at one meeting per year Ovenden (Jennifer.Ovenden@deedi.qld.gov.au).
Bateson symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Bateson symposia
credit hours) (all students are charged at the in-state public one-day symposium (March 25th , 2010). Participants interested are welcome to present either a talk or
a poster. Invited speakers for the Symposium are Prof.
Symposium on Genomic Data Mining Frankfurt /
?Hands-on Barcoding? - International Workshop and to 20 participants) 19.03.2010 Symposium only (open
Symposium on the methods of barcoding
At the end of the workshop we have organized an oneday symposium open for broad public (March 19th ,
either a talk or a poster. Invited speakers for the Symposium are Prof. Christian Schlötterer (University of
Galapagos GalapagosScienceSymposium Jul20-24 . . . 5
ence Symposium American Museum of Natural History understanding of impacts and realistic solutions. ParNew York City, New York, USA April 2 and 3, 2009 ticular emphasis will be placed on consideration of mulhttp://cbc.amnh.org/health Health and the environ- tiple and interacting stressors and decision making for
sentation during the Symposium. Posters that address
environment will be considered. See the Symposiumâs
disease emergence â Environmental change and disease All poster presenters must register for the symposium
submit an abstract (see Sample Abstract Subhttp://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/archives/mission).
ence Symposium American Museum of Natural History
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health Health and the
periences, spanning the natural, medical, and social sciName of contact - Provide the name of the contact per- ences, as well as policy planning. Please visit http://son for necessary correspondence, including notification symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health for the list of confirmed
Abstracts may be submitted by email to A limited number of posters will be accepted for preposters@amnh.org. The subject line of the email sentation during the Symposium. Posters that address
evolution. See the Symposium$B!G(Bs main themes at
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health .
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/archives/biocultural/pdfdocs/sample-abstract-submission.pdf Abstract Format
*MINISYMPOSIUM ANNOUNCEMENT*
All poster presenters must register for the symposium
REMINDER: Contributed Symposium Proposals due:
GalapagosScienceSymposium
Galapagos Science Symposium: the role of science in
about-us/pdf/Symposium%202009%20PP
Sessions will include major themed symposia; timely postgraduate research and interactions between young
The Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology and the National Research Council are organizing a symposium
entitled “Progress in Systems Biology Symposium: The
Brain and Mind”. This Symposium will take place in
Ottawa on April 23rd and 24th 2009. More information on the symposium is available at www.oisb.ca <
be interested in this symposium.
of cis- versus trans- regulation in transcriptome evolution. The aim of this symposium is to bring together
oral/poster presentation in the symposium “Evolutionary transcriptomics”, which will take place at the next
This symposium will focus on genome-wide analysis of
gene expression, with emphasis on the genetic mechanisms, ecological conditions, and selective forces reThere is a symposium to be held at the European Sosponsible for expression variation within species and/or ciety for Evolutionary Biology Congress in Turin, Italy
and get useful information about the congress, please rationale behind this symposium is described below.
symposium ’The genetic consequences of reproductive
This Symposium will explore experimental work that
We would like to invite interested people to submit abstracts for oral and poster presentations for the symposium “EARLY EVOLUTION”, which will take place at
data and use of new analytical approaches, such as phylogenomics. The symposium is designed to put together
to the evo-devo symposium we are organizing at ESEB
Here is a short outline of our symposium:
We invite submissions of abstracts for talks in our symposium ’Ecological Genetics in the Genomic Era’, which
This symposium will explore the hitherto neglected relationships between the evolution of development and
goal of this symposium is to highlight the growing relevance of utilizing concepts from evolutionary biology
to address biological questions of health, social and economic relevance. We feel that such symposium is particularly timely given the current general trend to limit
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary applications”, which is sponsored by Wiley-Blackwell, to be
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM: The average rate
this summer (http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/) for a symposium entitled:
This symposium aims to assemble evolutionary studies that seek to identify, understand and describe the
The symposium will be open to 5 oral presentations
to a symposium: - Male-female coevolution - from
presentations for the symposium “Recent Advances in Mariana Wolfner (Cornell); Kerry Shaw (Cornell); MoKin Selection”, to be held on August 29 2009 at the Eu- hamed Noor (Duke).
ropean Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) meetSymposium summary: The study of male- female coing in Turin, Italy (August 24-29 2009).
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM
The aim of this symposium is to discuss recent advances to shape a number of morphological and physiologiin Kin Selection Theory, including the evolution of al- cal traits. These changes can ultimately reduce gene
to observe the evolutionary processes resulting from inFrancisco Ubeda, University of Tennessee, USA Email: teractions between the sexes. In this symposium we
UK Email: andy.gardner@ed.ac.uk Web: http://- to the whole organism. This symposium will provide
Our symposium is aimed at researchers in the fields
speaker, followed by 30 parallel symposia. Other events
For description of symposia, abstract submission, ho- different evolutionary forces.
The symposium aims to gather researchers using the
presentations for our symposium on âFunctional analysis of natural variationâ at the 2009 congress of the
The proposed symposium is designed to make two important contributions. (1) First, on a general level it
lution. In this context, the symposium hopes to foster a
NETIC VARIATION TO GENETIC ACCOMMODA- evolution in natural populations. (2) On a more speTION”, which will take place at the next congress of cific level, this symposium will explore the causes and
To date, speakers include Andreas Wagner (University In this context the symposium hopes to (a) facilitate a
go to http://www.eseb2009.it/uk To learn more about Lastly, the symposium is designed to facilitate an inthe goals of this symposium please see the a summary tegration of micro- and macroevolution (by focusing
of the symposium proposal below.
genomics). As such this symposium hopes to make an
mulation of cryptic genetic variation free to drift within presentations in the symposium “Integrating ecology
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM: The enormous
transmission. The aim of this symposium is to bring
Symposium description Pollination biology is an exciting field at the nexus of evolutionary genetics, ecology,
quantitative genetics to community ecology. This symposium will bring together researchers whose work represents methodological and theoretical advances in the
Symposium organizers Scott Armbruster, University
presentation in the symposium “Pollinator-mediated
our symposium entitled “Polyploidy at the population
Our symposium will focus on the effects of polyploidy
With our symposium, we would like to offer the ESEB
presentations for our symposium “From the selfish gene
POPULATION LEVEL: ECOLOGICAL AND POPU- the symposium.
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM Evolution is by its
We therefore expect our symposium to attract a wide
The symposium explores the proposition that sexspecific selection on loci shared by females and males
oral/poster presentation in the symposium “Intralo- and drive the evolution of genomic imprinting alongside
symposium dedicated specifically to this form of sexual
presentations in the symposium “Frontiers in Speciation Research: proximal and causal mechanisms of behavioural divergence” to be held on August 28 2009 at
Description of the symposium: Three-quarter day symposium, on the 28th of August 2009 150 years after the
and fascinating riddle. The aim of this symposium is to
key point of this symposium will be to illustrate the
*Symposium 14:
for our symposium at ESEB 2009, the congress
symposium will bring together people interested in
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary sys- 4. Changes in reaction network properties impact pretems biology”, to be held for 3/4 of a day on August 25 dicted fitness correlates (need to be defined for each
tational effects, robustness, epistasis and adaptive evoOur symposium is aimed at researchers with an interest lution.
in bridging the genotype-phenotype gap with mechanistic models. These models may quantify aspects of any In this symposium we aim to bring together researchers
and poster presentations in the symposium “ Genetic
Bringing together theoreticians, geneticists and evolutionary ecologists, this symposium will examine the
registration see http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/ Symposium outline:- Selective trade-offs are fundamental to
aim of this symposium is to address such questions by
this summer (http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/) for a symposium entitled: Selective forces shaping transitions to
Description: This symposium aims at identifying and
Royal Entomological Society International Symposium
Several Symposia will be also organized, the confirmed
Symposia. Room and board are included at the University of Arkansas, as well as a $400 weekly stipend Dear Undergraduate Student,
UIowa SMBE Jun3-7 Call for Contributed Symposia
UIowa SMBE Jun3-7 CallForSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Center for Biodiversity and Conservation Milstein Science Symposium American Museum of Natural History
will be accepted for presentation during the Symposium. Posters that address any aspect of the relation-
send an email to: cbcsymposium@amnh.org
SYMPOSIUM 2009
OVERVIEW OF THE SYMPOSIUM Environmental pm Opening Reception 630 - 800 pm
The goals of the AGA Symposium for 2009 are to examine environmental change from the perspective of
genetics and genomics. Leading researchers in evolutionary, population, and quantitative genetics will discuss how these fields integrate with ecological and geological perspectives on climate change. The symposium will run over three days, with morning and afternoon sessions featuring invited speakers, and an evening
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
Symposium and Friday evening. Activities will conclude by noon on Sunday, June 14.
3rd ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
are finalized. Add your name to the Symposium mailing
Chair, AGC Symposium Organizing Committee
presentations in the symposium “Integrating ecology
presentations in the symposium “Integrating ecology (ESEB) meeting in Turin, Italy (August 24-29 2009).
Abstracts should be submitted online at http://- DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM:
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM: The enormous
The aim of this symposium is to bring together theThe aim of this symposium is to bring together the- oreticians and empiricists to explore how ecology influences the evolution of parasites. This will not only
Contributed Symposia
develop and submit proposals for consideration as contributed Symposia.
Symposium proposals need to include:
Proposed symposium title, along with proposers’ address(es) and e-mail(s)
SMBE 2009 will include ~22 symposia of which ~11 will
be chosen from contributed proposals. Each Symposium will have two (or possibly three) invited speakers
to James.Marshall@bristol.ac.uk by June 12th 2009. symposia will be provided with partial financial support
(please indicate your preference if you have one). Regis- Symposia being developed by the Organizing Committration details and accommodation information will be tee currently include:
Proposals for contributed Symposia (in Word
SMBE 2009 Symposium Proposal
symposia will be provided with partial financial support
Symposia being developed by the Organizing Commit2009
nomics (Ting, Sterner & Xing) * Mutation accumulation in eukaryotic genomes (Neiman) * Population geCallForSymposia
CALL FOR CONTRIBUTED SYMPOSIA
Biology and Evolution <SMBE 2009< will be held in Proposals for contributed Symposia (in Word
SMBE 2009 Symposium Proposal2
tributed Symposia.
Symposium proposals need to include: * Proposed sym- 30, 2009
SMBE 2009 will include ~22 symposia of which ~11 will
ington University 340 Lisner Hall 2023 G Street, N.W. 2008. Please note that a symposium (scientific preWashington, D.C. 20052
SanDiego ASM EvolutionaryMicrobiol May2010 SymposiaCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
symposium@izw-berlin.de, IZW, Berlin, Germany.
MENT advertising our October 2009 symposium on the on the history and evolution of fora and fauna biobiology of Anolis lizards, to be held at Harvard Univer- diversityÂ inÂthe arid and semi arid regions. ı̈ Climate change in arid lands and desert margins ı̈ Climate
more may be found on the symposium website:
The 4th International Conference is now ample evi- in some symposia, but availability may be limited to
Sciences (ESES) it is our pleasure to welcome especially Please note that also all speakers in symposia and workthe evolutionary biologiststhe and Ecologists ecologists shops need to register their abstract in order to be into the fourth international conference on “Impacts of cluded in the abstract book!
Sessions and symposia include: Taxonomy and Systematics, Zoogeography and Evolution, and Conservation
This is an announcement for the International Symposium
This symposium celebrates 200 years of Darwin’s birth
*ASM **Division R, Evolutionary and Genomic Microbiology*, is now soliciting suggestions for symposia to
To propose a symposium that represents a theme of
There is a link on this page so you can check if candidate speakers have presented at a recent symposium.
SymposiaCall
CALL FOR **SYMPOSIA* *PROPOSALS American Society for Microbiology Division R, Evolutionary
The Symposium is sponsored by FWO (Fund of ScienUniversity of California, Davis
International symposium - University of Ghent, Bel- CNRS Moulis, France) - “Experimental ecology of disgium September 14 and 15, 2009 Dispersal is a cen- persal in Tetrahymena microcosms” 17:00 Reception
animals and micro-organisms. The symposium offers and genetics along a latitudinal gradient in the buta diverse and attractive series of talks including four terfly Pararge aegeria: do clines differ between landkeynote papers. It is a pleasure to host several interna- scape types?” 12:00 Aurélie Coulon, Virginie Stevens
We invite you to SUBMIT PROPOSALS FOR SYMPOSIA.
between sub-disciplines. We, therefore, particularly encourage submission of symposia on broad and integrative topics of potential interest to researchers from difAnnouncing BIOT-2009, the 6th Annual Biotechnol- ferent fields (e.g. developmental biology, genetics, paogy & Bioinformatics Symposium, October 9-11, 2009 leontology, genomics, theoretical biology). Symposia
and Bioinformatics, theoretical as well as practical. Symposia should, if possible, accommodate 8 invited
sized: Machine learning application in bioinformatics and 5’ discussion). A small number of mini-symposia
quencing technologies and related data analysis RNA single symposium.
interference, microRNA, epigenetics Bioinformatics ap- Please include the following information in your proplication in plant science and plan biotechnology Molec- posal for a symposium:
ular evolution, phylogeny, and phylogenomics Educa(1) Title of symposium
(3) Brief (abstract length) description of the symposium, including a short indication of what the different
(4) Brief justification of why the symposium is appropriate for an EED meeting (e.g. timeliness, general
(5) Contact information of all symposium organizers
cichlids. The aim of this symposium is to provide stateSocialEvolution Aug15-18
Structure of the symposium: Invited speakers and other
Invited speakers: Prof. Nadia Aubin-Horth, Universymposium will present relevant results and overviews
ation between group members, task sharing, individ- this symposium the participants will dispose of a good
Where and when: The symposium will take place
symposium@izw-berlin.de, IZW, Berlin, Germany.
The American Genetic Association Symposium on
matical, computational and life sciences to discuss cutThe Symposium will be held at Brown University in ting edge research in comparative genomics, with an
emphasis on computational approaches and novel exHave a look at the program : http://www.brown.edu/- perimental results. The program will include a combiDepartments/EEB/aga/ The Symposium is open to nation of keynote speakers and contributed talks. Topall, and registration will remain open until the start of ics of interest include, but are not limited to
3rd ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, June 11-14, 2009, Kansas City
the various organism groups during the Symposium. If
you would like to organize a meeting of your organism group during the Symposium, please contact Doris
Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium at a slightly
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-state.edu/agc/spongeconference2010@ceab.csic.es
- Pre-symposium workshop on Chado Databases and *William M. Gelbart, Harvard University,
SYMPOSIUM <file:///C:\Documents%20and%20Settings\Doris\My%20Documents\Arthropod\AGC%20
Comm-Symposium\2009%20Symposium\ScheduleFrom egg to eternity”
Revised.pdf> PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
prior to the Symposium and Friday evening. Activities * David G. Heckel, Max Planck-Institute for Chemical
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
Arkhipova Philip Awadalla Ricardo Azevedo Doris from the American Genetic Association, but we encourBachtrog Graham Bell Bill Birky Antonio Bernardo age additional sponsorship inquiries. A symposium isCarvalho Adam Chippindale Josep Comeron Thomas sue to be published in Journal of Heredity is planned.
The scientific program of symposia and contributed sessions has been determined.
The SMBE 2009 scientific program will include 4 plenary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
have been selected, Check the various symposia
for participants. http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/Interacting with the student during some mealtimes, symposia.php 2. The program of symposia and concoffee breaks and other social gatherings.
single Latin American scale of the Darwin200 Symposia, organized by The International Union of Biological Sciences (IUBS), and will include keynote lectures,
several symposia and poster sessions.
Symposia to be held: (chairs * and preliminary list of
The SMBE 2009 scientific program will include 4 plenary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and 150 Km horse back ride, following part of Darwin’s path
Royal Entomological Society Symposium
you. I will be presenting a contributed talk on the below research as part of the Reproductive Protein Function and Evolution Symposium on Friday, June 5, at
divided into two parts: a symposium part where the
conference will present a diversity of viewpoints and experiences, spanning the natural, medical, and social sciences, as well as policy planning. Please visit http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health for the list of confirmed
EVOLUTION AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Center for Biodiversity and Conservation Milstein Science Symposium American Museum of Natural History
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health Health and the
A limited number of posters will be accepted for presentation during the Symposium. Posters that address
evolution. See the Symposium$B!G(Bs main themes at
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health .
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/archives/biocultural/pdfdocs/sample-abstract-submission.pdf Abstract Format
All poster presenters must register for the symposium
The American Genetic Association Annual Symposium
http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/aga symposium/ AGA.Symposium.Website.html
Announcing a 2009 symposium on the biology of Anolis
We at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University are pleased to announce a symposium
meeting schedule, and more may be found on the symposium website:
http://webh01.ua.ac.be/funmorph/anthony/anolis symposium/ We hope to see you there!
Resurrection Ecology Symposium in Herzberg, Switzerland, September 13-18, 2009.
www.resurrection-ecology.net This symposium aims to astonishingly effective first-line defence against many
3rd ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
*Fotis C. Kafatos, Imperial College London, Evolutionary, functional and population genomics of mosquitoes: SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
* Volker Brendel, Iowa State University, Opportunities Symposium and Friday evening. Activities will conand challenges for automated genome annotation and clude by noon on Sunday, June 14.
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
co-evolution: Transcriptional responses of the generVENUE: The symposium will take place at the hisalist herbivore Helicoverpa armigera to plant defense
Information/NIH, Arthropod genome support at NCBI your name to the Symposium mailing list, by sending
Chair, AGC Symposium Organizing Committee
It has been confirmed that the *Evolution of plantpollinator interactionssymposium proposed *in the
Several of you have already manifested their interest plants. Likewise, the opportunity of accurately dat(i) in taking part in that symposium, (ii) in presenting ing the phylogenetic topologies has offered an oppora communication. This was very helpful as a support tunity of understanding why some rapid specialisation
*an abstract* of their contribution to the symposium or using alternative techniques, have characterized the
to make the proceedings of this symposium published In that context of need for improved information conin a book in the Cambridge University Press.
general mailing, in the future only people having man- set up a specific symposium, which will act as a forum
wish to tune broadly the symposium theme [i.e. ’Evolu- Dr Sébastien Patiny (Entomologist) 1070 Brussels
ties, giving the participants the opportunity to meet in Symposium - Thursday April 2nd, 2009 The Linnean
co-existence. This symposium will bring together specialists who have approached the ecology and evolution
and conservation. This symposium will be relevant to
ESEB 2009 Symposium no. 26 ’Post-genomic approaches to host-parasite evolution’ 24 - 29 August
like to invite you to submit abstracts to the above symposium. Invited speakers are Bregje Wertheim, University of Groningen and Frank Jiggins, University of
Information about the conference, with online registra- presentations in the symposium “Integrating ecology
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM: The enormous
transmission. The aim of this symposium is to bring
Our symposium will focus on the effects of polyploidy
thus to our symposium
Please note that the symposium has previously been advertised under its unabridged title “Polyploidy at the With our symposium, we would like to offer the ESEB
(but hopefully not limited to) plants, fishes, amphibThe symposium (nr 23) will take place at the next
REMINDER: SPECIATION symposium ESEB 2009 Hoikkala, University of Jyväskylä, Finland (anAbstract submission: 3 days left (deadline: 15 February neli.hoikkala@jyu.fi) Axel Meyer, University of Konstanz, Germany (axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de) Roger
presentations in the symposium “Frontiers in Speciation Research: proximal and causal mechanisms of be- Carole Smadja, PhD Website: http://www.carolehavioural divergence” to be held on August 28 2009 at smadja.staff.shef.ac.uk Department of Animal and
This symposium is supported by the European Networking Programme on Frontiers in Speciation Research (FroSpects) coordinated by the European Science Foundation (ESF).
Description of the symposium: Three-quarter day symposium, on the 28th of August 2009 150 years after the
and fascinating riddle. The aim of this symposium is to
key point of this symposium will be to illustrate the
Subject: ESEB meeting 2009: Symbiosis Symposium
and poster presentations in the symposium Diversity
Description: This symposium evaluates the role of symbiotic microorganisms on the evolution of their multicellular hosts â with a specific focus on the microbes’
taxonomic diversity as well as their function in determining host fitness and speciation rates. Our symposium will promote cross-disciplinary exchange by bringing together biologists from different fields, including
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary sys- 4. Changes in reaction network properties impact pretems biology”, to be held for 3/4 of a day on August 25 dicted fitness correlates (need to be defined for each
tational effects, robustness, epistasis and adaptive evoOur symposium is aimed at researchers with an interest lution.
in bridging the genotype-phenotype gap with mechanistic models. These models may quantify aspects of any In this symposium we aim to bring together researchers
another (and other participants) at a tri-society symposium luncheon at the conference as they begin their
Symposium description: With the recent availability of
forces such as balancing selection may actually favor introgression. This symposium will present the depth of
is an invitation to participate in a symposium on the
The SMBE 2009 scientific program will include 4 plenary talks and 23 symposia. Half of the symposia
SYMPOSIA:
Symposium: Statistical Genetics of Livestock in the
The web site of the symposium “Statistical Genetics of present their latest research results. Please mark your
Dr. Kent Weigel and Dr. Guilherme Rosa Symposium
The Symposium organization acknowledges funding
Phone: + 1 (608) 265-8617 Fax: + 1 (608) 263-9412 E- distance of the Ebling Symposium Center.
Symposium: Statistical Genetics of Livestock in the
The symposium “Statistical Genetics of Livestock for
companion animals. The symposium will be structured
Dr. Kent Weigel and Dr. Guilherme Rosa Symposium
The Symposium organization acknowledges funding
goal: international travel awards for meeting attendance, international symposia awards, and other international events awards. For details and eligibility
IowaCity SMBE 2009 Jun3-7 NextGenerationSeqSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
PortlandOregon SSB 2010 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . .9
INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM 28-29-30 April 2009
By the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Philosophical Sciences To professor Gerald Edelman Nobel The American Genetic Association 2009 Symposium
NextGenerationSeqSymposium
oral presentations to the Symposium on:
DESCRIPTION OF THE SYMPOSIUM: Over the
For the innovation, the number and the variety of involved areas, we propose a symposium dedicated to unravel the impact of next-generation sequencing on evolutionary biology. The aim of the symposium will be
Such a symposium will be intersecting and complementary to other already accepted symposia (e.g. Mutation
for oral and poster presentations for the symposium on
theme of the symposium are particularly encouraged
would also like to invite all the other evolutionary biologists to come to this symposium during the SMBE2009
Symposium Description:
in biological evolution. A symposium about the relationship between epigenetics, environment, and evolution is due, particularly in this year of Darwin. In this
symposium, the roles played by the environment and
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2009
* Pre-symposium workshop on Chado Databases and
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
know might be interested in this symposium but not
Symposium and Friday evening. Activities will conon the evoldir email list (like some molecular biolo- clude by noon on Sunday, June 14.
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
/www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2009/Update ArthropodGenomicsSymposium.pdf
Arthropod Genomics Symposium. Register by May 15,
Symposium: Flowers on the tree of life as part of Sys* Marian R. Goldsmith, University of Rhode Island,
basis for evo-devo studies, particularly in the recogni* Yoonseong Park, Kansas State University, “Evolu- tion of homologies of structures and their transformationary processes of the partnership between neuropep- tion series. This symposium welcomes contributions on
organ formation. Richard Bateman, Flowers of anVENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
CallSymposia
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for 2010 Symposia
for symposia at the 2010 Evolution meeting to be held
(5) the proposed length of each talk. Symposia are reOffice and overnight delivery address:
interested in symposia whose topics do not overlap with
20560 Postal mailing address National Museum of Natsymposia), that introduce new ideas or synthesize imural History Smithsonian Institution P.O. Box 37012,
that unite systematics with other fields are also desirable. We encourage participation from young investigators and others typically under-represented in symposia.
their proposals. Selected symposia will receive funds to
Technical Symposia
*CALL FOR **SYMPOSIA* *PROPOSALS American Society for Microbiology Division R, Evolutionary
*ASM **Division R, Evolutionary and Genomic Microbiology*, is now soliciting suggestions for symposia to
To propose a symposium that represents a theme of COMPLEX SYSTEMS AND CHANGES: DARWIN
didate speakers have presented at a recent symposium.
from the American Genetic Association, but we encourage additional sponsorship inquiries. A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is planned.
your work, as well as a second choice. See http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/symposia.php for up-todate summaries of the SMBE 2009 symposia, includRegistration is $200 for grad students and postdocs and ing confirmed speakers. 2. If your work does not fit
$300 for faculty. Registration includes the closing ban- neatly into one of the symposia or general sessions,
three general (non-symposium-associated) contributed
may be added to the program. 4. Some symposiumFacebook users: Join our official meeting group.
symposia-related and general-topic sessions. However,
most appropriate symposium or general session for
The SMBE 2009 scientific program will include 4 plenary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and
making this year a timely one to hold a symposium on
this topic. This symposium will provide a centralized
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: In species with heterogametic males, the relative patterns of genetic variation on the X chromosome and the autosomes can reveal
The American Genetic Association Symposium on the
Symposium structure Participants will present their
We would like to welcome you at the 3rd young researcher symposium in applied population biology, held
Please check out the symposium website to find out
Aims In this symposium, we aim to provide an opportunity for interdisciplinary discussions within the broad Dear Colleagues,
course concludes with a symposium, where students
Lyon SMBE Jul4-8 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Kansas
Deadline to submit Poster Abstract for oral presenta- SYMPOSIUM SCHEDULE: The Ecological Genomics
Symposium will convene in the historic MuehleDeadline to reserve hotel room within room block: Friday, 10/23/09
For a complete schedule, please visit our Symposium
“Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium at a DEADLINES:
+Andres Aguilar, University of California-Merced, Symposium and we encourage you to attend! Please
+May R. Berenbaum, University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign, “Cytochrome P450 genes in plant-insect Symposium Organizing Committee:
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Kansas
SYMPOSIUM SCHEDULE: The Ecological Genomics
Symposium will convene in the historic Muehlewww.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009
Hotel in downtown Kansas City has reserved a block of For a complete schedule, please visit our Symposium
rooms for symposium participants at a discounted rate. website, http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009.
description of the symposium, including a justification
INFORMATION will be posted on our website, symposia. To avoid redundancy in the scientific prowww.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009, as details are finalized. gram, we will favour those that complement the locally
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2009 developed symposia listed below.
Symposium and we encourage you to attend! Please With best regards,
Symposium Organizing Committee:
Local symposia:
Lyon SMBE Jul4-8 CallSymposia
SMBE 2010 - call for external symposia
The call for external symposia is now open.
smbe2010symposia@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
The proposal (1 page maximum) must include: Symposium title Organisers names Names of 2-3 invited speakers Abstract
the sub-community that each symposium represents.
the 5th International Symposium / Workshop on seed
We propose a symposium entitled “Evolution of dis-
symposium aims at presenting the state of the art in
Please find below details of a one-day symposium titled “The Darwinian Renaissance in the Humanities
CEE Symposium
Symposium poster Abstracts How to get to the Flett
The symposium has generated a lot of interest so we
strongly advise early booking - the symposium is limited to 100 participants.
eventdetails.asp?eventidS The website is available for CEE 2010 Symposium - Integrating Genetic and Culregistration (special reduced rates for EHBEA and tural Approaches to Language
Please book soon as the symposium is limited to 100
Symposium “Integrating Genetic and Cultural Approaches to Language” at Queen Mary University of Fiona Jordan, Max Planck Institute for PsycholinguisLondon. Date: Friday, 26th February 2010
Description: This symposium will ask how the diverse systems
tive influences on language evolution, and phylogenetic http://sites.google.com/site/cee2010symposium/
Symposium support: The Centre for Ecology and
http://sites.google.com/site/cee2010symposium/ The Evolution The Galton Institute The Genetics Society
The following one-day symposium may be of interest to
Tuesday, December 8th, 2009 University of Edinburgh let me bring your your attention a symposium on
Potts and Carlo Maley, and the topics range from reThis is a one-day symposium of The Centre for Immu- production to aging, from infectious disease to cancer.
host, while others can infect many hosts, is a key concern as host shifts and disease emergence threaten human and wildlife health. In this symposium, we have a
Our meeting is organized as a series of symposia touching on several research topics:
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM:
in a symposium on experimental evolution. This symposium will be held in Ann Arbor, Michigan on Saturday, April 17, 2010. Eight scientists will be selected to
international symposia.
poster sessions and 7 symposia of the following topics:
ers will open our symposium with a keynote lecture,
You can also prepare and send your abstracts through followed by an opening reception on Friday. The symposium continues on Saturday with a full day of inthe webpage, the deadline is February 15, 2010.
Symposium website at http://www.bio.indiana.edu/˜igert/symposium/index.htm or contact
IU/UO November 2009 Symposium
IGERT trainees of Indiana University and the University of Oregon cordially invite you to our annual graduate student organized symposium, titled Current Frontiers in the Integration of Evolution, Development, and
Genomics. Past symposia have focused on specific areas
macro- and micro-evolutionary concepts. The upcoming symposium will focus on what has been gleaned
in our past IGERT symposia. We thoroughly encourage
This symposium will be held November 13th to 15th GENES” SYMPOSIUM
funding is available to support student fellowships to attend the 7th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium,
attending the symposium. All applicants must be U. S.
GENES” SYMPOSIUM
Symposium (November 13 to 15, 2009, in Kansas City).
nomics Symposium will help reach these goals. In this The student fellowships are available through an award
attending the symposium. All applicants must be U. S.
nomics Symposium will help reach these goals. In this
national Symposium of Ancient DNA from the Lab- Best regards,
** 1st International Symposium of Ancient DNA from
day afternoons, and a Meso-American Symposium on
and Bioinformatics Symposium (BIOT-2009). These
Symposium
REGISTRATION is now open to attend the 7th Annual “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium
The Ecological Genomics Symposium will convene in
tel reservations, please visit our Symposium website,
Todd Schlenke Department of Biology Emory UniverSymposium and we encourage you to attend!
Symposium Organizing Committee:
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by the National Science Foundation and
tions for the sessions they wish to chair. The Session This symposium celebrates 200 years of Darwin’s birth
plementing our symposium, Integrative Migration Biology. This symposium will be held at the 2010 Society
to better understand this important life history strategy. The primary goal of this symposium is to bring
Additional information will be posted on our symposium website, which can be found here: http://sicb.org/meetings/2010/symposia/index.php3 once we
have finalized some additional details. If you have questions about the symposium or the meeting, please contact us at melissabowlin at gmail dot com or ibisson at
Funding for this symposium was provided by MIGRATE, an NSF-funded Research Coordination Network, and SICB.
placed in the correct session, be sure to put our symThis symposium and the complementary session(s) are posium, Integrative Migration Biology’ into the field
the globe to discuss the past, present, and future of mi- complementing a regular symposium” on the abstract
gration research. The list of symposium speakers and submission form on SICB’s meeting webpage.
the auspicious occasion, we’re going to have a symposium (and party) for him. The day in question is
London MEE Launch Symposium Apr22 reminder . . 9
Arts and Sciences (KNAW) hosts a full day symposium
evolutionary component. This symposium is meant to
tematik, GfBS), and 20th International Symposium
Call for Symposia Proposals for symposia are currently
considered by the organizers. The deadline for submission of symposia proposals is 31 May 2010.
workshops & symposia closes 1 July 2010 Abstract
between 7-11 September, 2010. The symposium aims
and discuss research results. This year’s symposium is
To register for the symposium, please go to our website at www.isba4.net and follow the links to registration. Once you have registered online you will receive
ros. This includes a symposium pack, lunch, wireless
For more information on the symposium, including an
outline program, as well as other useful information regarding travel to Copenhagen, the location of the symposium venue, and accommodation options please visit
International Symposium on Biomolecular Archaeology
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas ArthropodBase Consortium regarding the generation of
Participants are invited to dine Saturday night at an genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
join the fun as we share our progress by providing feedPRE-SYMPOSIUM WORKSHOP: Thursday after- back on these projects and proposing new possibilities.
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
Symposium and Saturday morning. Activities will conclude by noon on Sunday, June 13.
London MEE Launch Symposium
Just one month before “Methods in Ecology and Evolution Launch Symposium”, a one-day symposium to
Ecological Society. The symposium will take place on
view/0/launchsymposium.html There are spaces left
http://www.methodsinecologyandevolution.org/ Submit to MEE http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/meebesjournals MEE Launch Symposium - 22 April 2010,
the 5th International Symposium / Workshop on seed
lite Symposium on the Impact of Symbiosis on Be- be applied for here: http://www.isbeperth2010.com/haviour - in combination with the ISBE 2010 (Perth, grants.php In the tradition of the Society, all abstracts
lite - Symposium “Impact of Symbiosis on Behaviour” 2010. Unsuccessful oral submissions will be offered a
April 2010. Registration for ISBE includes this satellite symposium and will be open following the Abstracts
A one day symposium,
Symposium remit: the study of disease has often been
might be. This symposium brings together researchers
The symposium is free, including lunch and refreshments, but please register at:
months are eligible. Applicants may be from any coun- goal: international travel awards for meeting attentry, but must be members of SSB, and are advised to dance, international symposia awards, and other injoin the Society as soon as possible to be considered ternational events awards. For details and eligibility
REU Symposium.
and teaching positions. The symposia will provide a fo16 participants will be selected on the following criteria: rum for professional development, including awareness
symposium will be held at the Pack Forest Conference
WEBS (Women Evolving Biological Sciences) is an annual three-day symposium aimed at addressing the retention of female scientists and issues related to the
research settings. The 2007 and 2008 WEBS symposia were huge successes. Early career participants
in the 2010 symposium.
to participants. The symposium will close with a round
You are kindly invited to attend the two-day, international symposium “*Frontiers in Biodiversity: a Phylogenetic Perspective*”, which will be held in Barcelona, The symposium will be held at the *Institute of CataSpain, the 1st and 2nd of October 2010.
lan Studies (/Institut d’Estudis Catalans/, IEC),* loThe symposium is co-organized by the Biodiversity Re- cated at the heart of Barcelona’s old town, in the 17th
rate. The symposium aims to explore the impact of
Biodiversity has multiple facets. In this symposium we
The symposium will focus on a selected list of “hot
The symposium will consist of two morning sessions
Symposium: 2-3 September 2010
We would be extremely grateful if you could forward We organize a symposium bringing together six invited
. The meeting is built around four successive SYMPOSIA (8th & 9th January) on broad foundational
international scientists and *openings for contributed AGA Symposium, “Conservation Genomics”.
Symposium details and registration at: http://www.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single
students to attend the Symposium. Students applying
8th Ecological Genomics Symposium, Nov 5-7, 2010, in for these fellowships must submit a poster abstract for
The Ecological Genomics Symposium will convene in Please share this announcement with colleagues and
on Sunday at noon. For a brochure and complete information regarding poster abstract submission, registra- FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Targeted
tion and hotel reservations, please visit our Symposium Excellence at Kansas State University and the National
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
The abstract deadline for oral presentations to the International Symposium on Cytochrome P450 Biodiversity and Biotechnology has been extended to *August
10th International Symposium on Cytochrome P450 Please share this announcement with students and colBiodiversity and Biotechnology, 3-7 October 2010 in leagues.
This symposium addresses all aspects of cytochrome Oceanographic Institution Mary Schuler and Stephen
overall goal of this 10th symposium is to foster a syn- p450@whoi.edu
Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing has been extended
20th International Symposium “Biodiversity and
Our symposium proposal Marine biodiversity, speciation, and hybridization for the upcoming Pacific Science Congress (PSC) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (June
If you would be interested in speaking at this symposium, please let us know. We are organizing the program for talks and we still have approximately ten (20
The symposium aims to bring together evolutionary — Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology P.O. Box 1346
http://- symposium of the SMBE 2010 meeting in Lyon are now
Antonia Monteiro (symposium organizer)
A Symposium on the Evo-Devo of Butterfly Patterning Nicholas Parnell <nparnell@gatech.edu>
wishing to present at this symposium to visit the conference web site at http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/Hilo Hawaii ConservationGenomics
4th ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM June 10 - 13, 2010, in Kansas City, USA www.kstate.edu/agc/symp2010 Download brochure: http:/IowaStateU MEEC2010 Mar26-28 2
Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium, “Arthropod
Fabrice Legeai INRA, Rennes, France Prediction and SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
bugs: Understanding the influence of the microbiome Symposium and Saturday morning. Activities will conon arthropod health
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
PRE-SYMPOSIUM WORKSHOP: Thursday afternoon, June 10, 4:00-6:00 pm Navigating NCBI’s
The symposia of our meeting will touch on several re-
the symposium on dispersal evolution is coming soon
the 5th International Symposium / Workshop on seed
Unfortunately, we are not in a financial position to in- We propose a symposium entitled “Evolution of disvite you, but we did our best to charge the partici- persal”. Dispersal is a ubiquitous trait in living organpants as little as possible. The purpose is not to make isms. In plants, adaptations to dispersal are highly dimoney but that research in Evolutionary Biology makes versified, from passive dispersal of seeds to active seed
symposium aims at presenting the state of the art in
Symposia and concurrent paper sessions, presidential
the botanical history of Macaronesia. The symposium
you to: International Symposium “WHAT DO WE
Celebrating 2010, the International Year on Biodiversity, we are organising an international symposium
well as weekly seminars, discussion groups and a research symposium. The program covers the cost of
research symposium: Saturday, August 14 (participation mandatory)
to give formal presentations at the end of the summer between molecular genetics and organismal-level proREU Symposium.
U.S. citizens or permanent residents, are eligible to ap- of their work in mini-symposium at the end of the sumply; exceptionally well qualified freshmen may be con- mer. Undergraduate students from any academic instisidered. Women, minority students, students with dis- tution except the Columbia campus of the University
viruses, pathogenic bacteria, fungi, parasites and prions of medical, veterinary or agronomical relevance. REGISTRATION INFORMATION Elsevier is comThrough plenary lectures and symposia, special empha- mitted to making this conference accessible to the
nizing a one-day young scientists minisymposium devoted to topics close to Jacques Monods interests. The
ology Graduate Program 253 Bessey Hall Iowa State and other model organisms. The symposia of our meetUniversity Ames, IA 50011-1050 Phone 631-796- ing will touch on several research topics:
Northeast Symposium on Evolutionary Divergence
The following one-day symposium may be of interest
This is a one-day symposium.
biology and ecology. The meeting will include Symposia, Contributed Papers, Posters, Banquet and Field
Scientists Symposium on EXPERIMENTAL EVOLU- tyjames@umich.edu tyjames@umich.edu
from Nancy Walls. This symposium provides an opporJul26-31 Deadline
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM:
in a symposium on experimental evolution. This symposium will be held in Ann Arbor, Michigan on Satur- Faithfully,
Participants at the annual symposium sponsored by
Symposium June 10 to 13, 2010, in Kansas City! Details are available at www.ksu.edu/agc Doris Merrill
well as weekly seminars, discussion groups and a research symposium. The program covers the cost of
Call for Symposia is still open.
We are seeking about ten new oral papers (no limit will be considered by the organizers. Symposia across
Mark@ERT-conservation.co.uk Please see the attached strongly encouraged. Symposium organizers are free to
attend the symposium with a poster presentation or as
A symposium in honor of Richard G. Harrison.
AGA Symposium, “Conservation Genomics”.
Symposium details and registration at: http://www.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single
Symposium details and registration at: http://www.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single
Being organized is a symposium on Cave Speciation and
The aim of this symposium is to exchange knowledge
about cave species diversity and their ecology, evolution, and conservation. Therefore this symposium will
Any botanists or zoologists who are interested in speaking at this symposium are encouraged to contact me
to the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing (PSB) special session on “Microbiome Studies” to 18 July.
Pacific Symposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Pacific Symposium
at the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 3-7 January in Hawaii. Papers will be refereed by top names
These practice exercises consist of data sets and expla- concludes with a symposium, where students present
Norman Oklahoma SSB Jun17-21 CallSymposia . . . . 8
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25 CallSymposia . . . . . 12
RutgersâThe State University of New Jersey, SCCS2010 http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/ APPLICambridge, the State University of New York College
Martha Groom, Ph.D. - Associate Professor of Ecology in Ankara, Turkey (7-9 September 2010, http://and Environmental Studies, University of Washington www.eurbee2010.org/). The symposium will bring toBothell & Seattle, Washington
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/.)
the description of our symposium. The deadline for abWORKSHOPS A series of workshops will be offered stract submission is 24 May 2010 and the deadline for
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/
Symposium details and registration at: http://AGA meetings focus on a single topic and last for 2.5 www.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single
attend the annual symposium.
8th Genomics Symposium, November 5 - 7, 2010, in
A brief supporting statement should be sent separately Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 5, 6, & 7,
Symposium details and registration at: http://- Symposium and we encourage you to attend! Speakwww.theaga.org/2010 AGA meetings focus on a single ers and other information will soon be announced and
Funding for this symposium is provided by the National tact the the 2010 OEEC Planning Committee at
for symposia at the 2011 Evolution meeting to be held
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (6 half hour
vious meetings (see SSB website for past symposia),
others typically under-represented in symposia.
2001: 8-10 October. SEPEEG is the Southeastern Pop- their proposals. Selected symposia will receive funds to
of Florida Genetics Institute 621 Bartram Hall P. O. Symposium Proposal.
CallSymposia
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for Symposia for
CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS
to organize a symposium. This is a call to submit proposals by 31 July 2010.
Symposia typically start with one or two invited speakers (40 min) and are followed by submitted talks (20
min) (actual duration will be shorter to allow participants to change rooms). Symposia take place in one,
two or a maximum of three 80-min windows. On special request, symposia can take the form of a discussion
We organize a symposium bringing together six invited
to discuss recent developments in this fast developing A symposium proposal consists of:
provide financial support for organizing a symposium.
of symposia.
chris- invited speakers in symposia. Please indicate whether
CallSymposia
evaluated and selected by the Local Scientific Committee. We expect to decide on symposia by the end of
October at the latest. Symposia proposals on overlapping subjects may be requested to fuse.
6. A call for contributed papers will be sent out in December 2010. Symposium organizers must be prepared
to screen submissions for their symposium (online evaluation system).
sité Paris 6 et Institut Pasteur, France) Hugues Roest DAVID LACK CENTENARY SYMPOSIUM, to be
overall goal of this 10th symposium is to foster a synthesis of understanding of cytochrome P450 (CYP)
10th International Symposium on Cytochrome P450
This symposium addresses all aspects of cytochrome
ing RAD Sequencing to study population genomics of Perth, Western Australia, a Post-Congress Symposium
subject for a post-ISBE symposium.
Registration: All participants of the symposium
Symposium: Please tick ours! :-) N.B. The deadline for
London MEE Launch Symposium Apr22 . . . . . . . . . . . 6
London MEE Launch Symposium
and Evolution Launch Symposium”, a one-day symposium to mark the launch of MEE, the new journal
of the British Ecological Society. The symposium will
A date for your diaries: Methods in Ecology and Evolution Launch Symposium - 22 April 2010
2010. Further details of the series of symposia, workconcurrent sessions and participate in many joint conshops plenary lectures and fieldtrips can be found at <
sium ‘Molecular clocks, evolutionary rates and geologspecialists and natural history collection professionical dates’. < http://www.ipc3.org/symposia/S14 >.
Maynooth) and Brian Moore (UC Davis); the symposium was convened by Dan Condon, Phil Donoghue, Detailed information, including invited speakers and
scientific symposia, can be found on the conference webKevin Peterson and Davide Pisani.
The aim of the symposium is to address the challenges
tion within this symposium. Please pass this e-mail on
ISBE Satellite Symposium on the Impact of Symbiosis
Ecology Congress 2010 we invite submission of abstracts for your chance to be a part of the ISBE Satellite - Symposium “Impact of Symbiosis on Behaviour”
April 2010. Registration for ISBE includes this satellite symposium and will be open following the Abstracts
Pressure symposium will run again between June 9th11th at Imperial College London, Silwood Park, UK.
The symposium is aimed at convening PhD students
attend the following symposia at the annual CSZ meeting:
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THESE SYMPOSIA,
SYMPOSIUM: The Importance of Parallelism for Evolutionary Theory (May 18, 2010)
student-organized Satellite Symposium:
STUDENT SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM: Phenotypic
Pressure symposium will run again between June 9th- Rachel
The symposium is aimed at convening PhD students Station Smithsonian Tropical Research Station
Lyon SMBE2010 Jul4-8 EvolvabilitySymposium . . . 15
Lyon SMBE2010 Symposium ProkEvolGenomics
To apply, please go to http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/sccsny/ . A list of plenary
Congress of Systematic and Evolutionary Biology (ICSEB VII), 12th Annual Meeting of the Society of BioConfirmed International Speakers Richard Abbott logical Systematics (Gesellschaft für Biologische Sys(University of St. Andrews, UK) Bruce Baldwin tematik, GfBS), and 20th International Symposium
Call for Symposia Proposals for symposia are currently
considered by the organizers. The deadline for submis- The Organizing Committee thanks all the abstract subsion of symposia proposals is 31 May 2010.
workshops & symposia closes 1 July 2010 Abstract
International Symposium on Biomolecular Archaeology
between 7-11 September, 2010. The symposium aims
and discuss research results. This year’s symposium is
of the week, Saturday 1 May. The symposium is being
To register for the symposium, please go to our website at www.isba4.net and follow the links to registration. Once you have registered online you will receive
Thereafter, the registration fee will increase to 150 Euros. This includes a symposium pack, lunch, wireless
For more information on the symposium, including an
outline program, as well as other useful information regarding travel to Copenhagen, the location of the symposium venue, and accommodation options please visit
To register for the symposium, please go to our website at www.isba4.net and follow the links to registration. Once you have registered online you will receive
150 Euros. This includes a symposium pack, lunch, free
For more information on the symposium, including an
outline program, as well as other useful information regarding travel to Copenhagen, the location of the symposium venue, and accommodation options please visit
We still have some slots available in our symposium
http://www.iussi.org/iussi2010/). The symposium will
Grosberg and Joan Strassmann. Below you find the description of our symposium. The deadline for abstract
be tested. In this symposium, the social biology of fusion and mixing in general, and the maintenance of genetic kin recognition regulating integration in particular, will be covered. The symposium will bring together
A session of the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing
CONFERENCE INFORMATION The Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing (PSB 2011) is an international,
posted to symposium website.
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
Symposium and Saturday morning. Activities will conBrad Shaffer mailto:hbshaffer@ucdavis.edu, President clude by noon on Sunday, June 13.
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
4th ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM June 10 - 13, 2010, in Kansas City, USA Symposium Website: www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2010
PRE-SYMPOSIUM WORKSHOP: Thursday afternoon, June 10, 4:00-6:00 pm
Navigating NCBI’s resources for insect genomics. TerArthropod Genomics Symposium!
ence Murphy, NCBI/NIH, will provide training on utiWe have added two new features to the Symposium
This is a call for abstracts submission for the symposium “The Genomics of Domestication” at the
*Scott J. Emrich, University of Notre Dame Oppor- of domestication. This symposium will focus on both
Cedric Feschotte, Ph.D Associate Professor DepartSymposium “Horizontal Transfer in Eukaryotic
genome evolution, but was under-appreciated in eukaryotes. This symposium will provide a unique opportunity to bring together researchers exploring the
This is a call for abstracts submission for the symposium “Evolution in Health and Medicine” at the
in the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of human disease. Through this symposium, we seek to build on the
microbial infections. The past few years have seen an This is a call for abstracts submission to the symposium
the structure of data. The symposium will attempt to
EvolvabilitySymposium
*Nicolas Lartillot* (U. de Montréal, Canada) Molec- We invite submissions of abstracts for the “Evolvular evolution, divergence dates, and the evolution of ability and the Origin of Novelty” symposium at the
of the symposium follows. Abstracts will be accepted
available variation and the degree of stress. This symposium will bring together researchers exploring each of
of our symposium is to provide a forum for recent work
We invite submissions of abstracts for the “Recombination and genome evolution” symposium at the
of the symposium follows. Abstracts for oral presentations will be accepted through April 23 at the conference web site:
This is a call for abstracts to be sumitted to the symposium on “Demography and selection in metapopulations” at the SMBE meetings this summer in Lyon,
For the description of the symposium
genes, and the level of purifying selection at the popu- To cooperate or to cheat? This symposium captures
The symposium is deliberately broad, as the synthesis
of these threads into a single symposium will provide
Lyon SMBE2010 Symposium
lyon1.fr . For the description of the symposium
Symposium on “Systems biology and the evolution of
symposium we will explore how systems-level molecular information can be used to investigate the evolution
open to all students. Of special note in this year’s meeting to the evolutionary biology community are two symposia dealing with rapid evolution of genes and genetic
systems. The preliminary program, including symposia
others typically under-represented in symposia.
Symposium Proposal.
their proposals. Selected symposia will receive funds to
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for Symposia for
for symposia at the 2011 Evolution meeting to be held Informatics for Phylogenetics, Evolution, and Biodiin Norman, Oklahoma, from 17-21 June 2011. The versity (iEvoBio) is Thursday, April 8, 2010, which
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
listed on the conference website (http://ievobio.org/Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (6 half hour
talks). The society is particularly interested in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those from pre- More details about the program and guidelines for convious meetings (see SSB website for past symposia), tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org.
Symposium on Intra-specific Diversity in Aquatic Animals
We would like to bring your attention to this multidisciplinary symposium, which will be held over three
The abstract for the symposium (also available at
isms. Our symposium will discuss current progress and [16,] 8 -55.54274 47 205.0855 -9.771653 [17,] 3 -55.25354
Here is a second announcement of the Populations under Pressure symposium which will run again between The course is aimed at graduate students with diverse
The symposium is aimed at convening PhD students simulation software will be provided.
Biological Sciences) is an annual three-day symposium
roles in academic and research settings. The inaugural WEBS symposia were huge successes. Early career
in the 2010 symposium.
on using R to perform comparative methods to be held and teaching positions. The symposia will provide a foin Santa Barbara on June 17-21. This course is funded rum for professional development, including awareness
covered will include an introduction to the R program- symposium will be held at the Pack Forest Conference
rate. The symposium aims to explore the impact of
Just a reminder that the international symposium Biodiversity has multiple facets. In this symposium we
today (1st and 2nd of October 2010). There are still The symposium will focus on a selected list of “hot
The symposium will consist of two morning sessions
to participants. The symposium will close with a round
>> The symposium is co-organized by the Biodiversity
The symposium will be held at the Institute of Catalan
The First Syngnathid Biology International Symposium
around four successive SYMPOSIA (8th & 9th January) on broad foundational and cutting-edge topARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, June 9-12,
ARTHROPOD GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM.
Mike Hickerson). 3. Biogeography and Ecology: Two University TENTATIVE SCHEDULE: Thursday afterLenses in One Telescope (Organizers: Dave Jenkins & noon, June 9 - Pre-Symposium Workshop Thursday
Please help us “paperlessly publicize” the Symposium
8th Ecological Genomics Symposium, November 5, 6, their arthropod vectors”
cal Genomics Symposium by forwarding this announce- Abstract
The Ecological Genomics Symposium will convene
students to attend the Symposium. Students applying
travel fellowships, please visit our Symposium website,
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Targeted
We will close the symposium with a plenary discussion to synthesise future directions, methodological approaches, and assess possibilities and pitfalls thereof.
With this symposium we hope to encourage dialogue
Registration: Attendance of the symposium is free,
Should you have any questions regarding the symposium please do not hesitate to contact me
SymposiumHomepage
canmove-symposium—genetics-of-migration
CAnMove symposium â Genetics of Migration Centre
The aim of this symposium is to provide a plenum for
The symposium will be centred on a backbone of six Gaëlle Pontarotti AEEB
57th Annual Systematics Symposium Missouri Botanical Garden 15-16 October 2010
I plan to attend the Systematics Symposium. Enclosed is my $95.00 registration fee. Please make checks
This form is available in PDF format < http://www.mobot.org/MOBOT/research/symposium/pdf/registration2010.pdf > or a Word <http://www.mobot.org/MOBOT/research/symposium/word/registration2010.doc > document format
Mail registration form to: Systematics Symposium Missouri Botanical Garden P.O. Box 299 St. Louis, MO
involve as wide a cross-section of the systematics community as possible. If you wold like to arrange a symposium, or have suggestions for symposium topics you
and a half day symposium is now open at http://www.gxe2010.org - admission is FREE and will be handled on a “first come first serve” basis. Space is limited
We are organizing the symposium “Speciation in a paradox: Many traits cluster in families, but genetic
http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2011/symposia/- these questions and leaders in their fields will speak at
speciation.php If you are interested in presenting in a the GxE 2010 symposium. At this one and a half day
session complementing this symposium, please register event, talks will be alternating with moderated discussoon at this website (http://sicb.org/meetings/2011/- sion in a medium-sized setting that allows and fosters
SYMPOSIUM: Genes & Environment: Finding the Neurobehavioral Genetics, University of Pittsburgh Missing Heritability of Complex Traits
More information about the symposium can be found lution. The goal is to position the University of Wisonline at http://www.gxe2010.org The organizers,
Special Symposium on Applied Evolution
Special Symposium on Applied Evolution
Special Symposium on Applied Evolution
Saturday, October 2: Public Symposium on Applied of Wisconsin- Madison. Everyone interested in Rapid
calls for applications, protocols, and workshop and symposia announcements.
books and symposia, and is beginning to influence some
to fund a keynote speaker, a small symposium or mixers. The challenge we face is that these societies exist
Ottawa SSE CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
naries and thematic symposia, as well as a large number
of contributed sessions. Currently scheduled symposia the study of human disease.
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from invited
Juliet Brodie, President James Cotton, Programme Of- A Symposium in Honor of Warren Abrahamson.”
www.bucknell.edu/abrahamsonsymposium.xml It now
offers additional information on the symposium schedUniversity Press, Genetics Society, Linnean Society,
ecology, restoration, and conservation of natural landscapes. Please visit the symposium website for a complete list of speakers.
Symposium: Neurophylogeny Invertebrates as para-
abstracts that are submitted.Â More detailed information will be available on the conference website http://www.bmb.msu.edu/GEDD/symposium11/index.html
the âSummer Symposium on Transcriptional Dynamics, Evolution, and Systems Biologyâ, which will be
held July 22-24, 2011 in East Lansing, MI. http://www.bmb.msu.edu/GEDD/symposium11/index.html
Symposium (at 2011 Joint Meeting of Ichthyologists
logeographic structure of species inhabiting the Gulf- PS. Deadline for abstract and symposium submission:
vites you to attend the following symposia at the annual 2011
SYMPOSIUM: Regeneration: Developmental & Evolu- of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA
STUDENT SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM: New perspectives on adaptation to environmental variation via epigenetic mechanisms (May 17, 2011)
Ottawa SSE CallSymposia
*Call for SSE Sponsored Symposia at Evolution 2012*
The SSE Council encourages proposals for two society sponsored symposia at the 2012 meeting in OtDavid Crews (UT Austin) “Life Imprints: Epigenetic tawa. In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council
different from those that have been included in reSanoji Wijenayake (Carleton) “ Temperature regulacent Society symposia. *The Council particularly ention of inheritable cytosine methylation patterns in
Christina Castellani (Western Ontario) “ Genomic in Society symposia. *Proposals for SSE Symposia
for Symposia 2012 Ottawa.pdf . Judy Stone
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THESE SYMPOSIA,
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster conrequire explicit management efforts for their conservatributions in the symposium “Chromosomes & Evolution” to be held at the European Congress of tion. We aim to show how molecular techniques can
This symposium will explore all aspects of evolution- science-based management and conservation policies.
oral and poster presentations for the symposium ’Con- Catherine
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster contributions in the symposium “Mechanisms of Speciation
This symposium will address the mechanisms of speciation in mammals, with the intention to providing
The 29 regular symposia show a very explicit preference
A. Symposium 21: Evolutionary ecological genomics Joke Bakker <joke.bakker@rug.nl>
B. Symposium 23: Climate change and evolution C.
Symposium 01: Experimental evolution across the microbe/macrobe divide
The new category of “general” symposia (for submissions outside the regular specialist symposia) received
All symposia will obtain a number of time slots that is
AGA Annual Symposium 2011: Genomics & Biodiversity Guanajuato and Irapuato, Mexico 23-26 July 2011
OUCRU has an ongoing collaboration with the Aca- skills including the ability to present work at internademic Medical Centre of the University of Amsterdam, tional symposia and to a non-specialist audience
We are pleased to announce the Otto Warburg International Summer School and Research Symposium
ICRS mini-symposium “Genomic approaches to coral environmental changes, still little is known about the
We would like to draw your attention to the minisymposium “Genomic approaches to coral reef biology” at the 2012 International Coral Reef Symposium,
eventually seeing you in Cairns! If you have any questions with respect to this mini-symposium, please do
An important goal for the mini-symposium is to provide crash course introductions to some of the latest
of the topic and important new results. The minisymposium will be an excellent opportunity to shed
submitted poster abstracts. There will be poster sessions and also opportunities for small symposia to be
Call for symposia, workshops and training sessions is
at the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing. Please Symposium on CoEvolution 4th - 7th October 2011,
We are pleased to announce a special symposium on
The symposium is organized by the post-docs of the
coeevolution/coevolution-symposium You can also
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
contact us through coevo.symposium@jyu.fi.
...and plan to attend the 9th Annual “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 4, 5,
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
opportunity exists to also attend the Oxford University’s Biodiversity Institute Symposium on “Biodiversity conservation beyond protected areas” (21st
for more information please visit the symposium website http://biosymposium.moonfruit.com/ . A list of
language, to fully exploit the potential of population SYMPOSIUM / WORKSHOP on Bayesian inference of
Invited speakers: Giorgio Bertorelle (University of There will be a mini-symposium on Bayesian inference
Satellite Symposium on Phylomedicine from March 2324, 2012 in Tempe, Arizona, USA. This symposium
of Molecular Evolution and Genomic Medicine (Phylomedicine). This will be highly interactive symposium,
Satellite Symposium on Phylomedicine from March 2324, 2012 in Tempe, Arizona, USA. This symposium
of Molecular Evolution and Genomic Medicine (Phylomedicine). This will be highly interactive symposium,
Symposium on Phylomedicine March 23-24, 2012
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
in an international symposium on biodiversity informatics and its application to research in ecology and
evolutionary biology. This symposium will be held in
2012 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing
research projects, and present their work in an end-ofsummer student symposium.
*Chicago* Plant Science Symposium 2011 *The Field Brian Charlesworth <brian.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk>
Science Symposium, highlighting the cutting edge of
The theme of the symposium is *Species: From Concepts to Conservation. *The species is a fundamental unit of research in biology, and continues to promote inquiry (and controversy) across a range of disciplines. We will invite a diverse set of speakers who
Symposium.
The goal of this symposium is to bring together students and scientific researchers working on various aspects of pipefish, seahorse and seadragon biology. Topics include physiology, phylogenetics, phylogeography,
Announcing: SYNG BIO Syngnathid Biology International Symposium Fiskebäckskil, Sweden April 25-29th
GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM June 9 12, 2011, in
symposium.shtml
Arthropod Genomics Symposium, Exploring Diversity,
California, Riverside Spider silks: Functional and evo- TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM Thursday aflutionary insights into high-performance materials
ternoon, June 9 Pre-Symposium Workshop Thursday
USDA. Symposium attendees are encouraged to attend.
symposium.shtml
WORKSHOPS A pre-symposium workshop, Genome
Registration plus two nights shared (double) en suite We warmly invite you to a CEE Symposium on “Interoom B&B £250.00 [Only 16 places available at £40 grating Ecology into Macroevolutionary Research” to
Alexandra Alvergne, PhD. Human Evolutionary Ecol- To register for the symposium and to receive furogy Group Department of Anthropology University ther updates on the schedule for the day please email
Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE) jointly sponsor this symposium, to be held in PSU on March 19-20,
2011. The symposium will begin with a welcome recepTerry Lewis, OARnet
March 19. The symposium is open to all and there is
http://- To view other information about the symposium and
tion, Penn State University (PSU) and the Society for is conducive to dialogue, mutual learning, and the dePenn State SMBE Symposium on Molecular and Genomic Evolution
in understand G x E frames this symposium.
presentations in the symposium on “Environment, Gmatrices and Adaptation” at the ESEB 2011 Meeting
:: The symposium ::
adaptation. This symposium aims to examine emerging conceptual, statistical and empirical approaches to
and poster presentations for the symposium “CAUSES
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Epistasis fundamentally affects all evolutionary processes, including speciation, the rate and direction of adaptation and the
University of Queensland, Australia) and Professor Jo- SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Dear all, We would like to invite submissions of abstracts for oral and poster presentations for the symposium, “Evolution Outside the Nucleus” to be held
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: The primary defining
modes of inheritance. Our goal is to use this symposium
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Maurine Neiman, Department of Biology, University of Iowa, Iowa
we invite abstract submissions for oral and poster presentations in the symposium on the Evolution of Division of Labor at the ESEB meeting 2011 (European
THE SYMPOSIUM:
on the symposium feel free to contact the organizers.
ESEB.2011 Novel techniques.Symposium Call Ab- share, parent-offspring conflict and interactions among
The symposium is organizsed by Reinmar Hager at
Call for abstracts for symposium 17 “Novel techniques Manchester and Per Smiset at Edinburgh.
lution. This symposium will be dedicated to presenting
Dr Amanda Bretman School of Biological Sciences Uni- We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster preversity of East Anglia Norwich NR4 7TJ UK Tel: +44 sentations in the symposium on Evolutionary ecological
ESESB Symposium on ’Evolution of family interactions’ Tübingen 2010, 20-25 August
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster presentations in this symposium at ESEB 2011 (European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting, Tuebingen 20-25 August 2011, Germany).
*The symposium:*
This symposium will focus on integrating cutting edge
Our symposium aims to attract contributions from
and poster presentations for the symposium “MUTUALISTIC INTERACTIONS: CAUSES AND CONSE*Invited speakers:*
functional genomics, and evolution. Their research focuses on different model systems including both genetic SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
mutualism theory. This symposium aims at highlightHelsinki
Thissymposium aims not only at providing a platform
For further information on the symposium feel free ABSTRACT
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: http://www.ice.mpg.de/Dr Luisa Orsini Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology and ext/conf.html#header logo SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZEvolutionary Biology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, ERS:
and poster presentations for the symposium “FUNCTIONAL POPULATION GENOMICS”, to be held at
and poster presentations for the symposium “POLYPLOID ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS” that will be held
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: This symposium showcases research in &#8216;functional population geSYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
nomics&#8217;, an emerging subdiscipline of evoluMuch progress was accomplished toward understanding tionary systems biology. The symposium emphasizes
lineages remain to be integrated. This symposium of- pathway or network function to evolutionary changes
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
http://www2.unine.ch/evobot/page29932.html Chris- ESEB 2011 Speciation Symposium - Call for abstracts
Symposium: ’Speciation by natural versus sexual selection’
The symposium is sponsored by the ESF Frontiers in
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary systems biology”, to be held on a day at the European
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster presentations in this ESEB symposium (European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting, Tuebingen 2025 August 2011, Germany). ABSTRACTS should
Conference: Evolutionary systems biology Symposium
to this ESEB 2011 symposium V European Society for will be approximately $120/person. Conference regisEvolutionary Biology meeting, 20-25 August 2011, Tue- tration will be by May 15, 2011
Symposium is now open for registration!
Symposium highlights include:
The symposium offers four options for presenters:
Thomas Brüls Centre National de Séquençage - GENO- the Undergraduate Research Symposium. Providing
/www.fieldmuseum.org/research collections/REU research symposium: Saturday, August 13 (parscholarships/reu.html for program details and REU ticipation mandatory)
calls for applications, protocols, and workshop and symposia announcements.
present your work in an end-of-summer student symposium.
www.pacificscience.org/congress2011.html) will include a one-day symposium/workshop devoted to
two-day international symposium entitled “Evolutionary Ecology across Trophic Levels - A Symposium in
ecology, restoration, and conservation of natural landscapes. Please visit the symposium website for a com- Please visit the conference webpage for more information and updates:
The aim of this symposium is to bring together molecuIf
FUNDING for this symposium is in part provided by environmental change, to set ecological and evolutionThe College of Arts and Science at Vanderbilt Univer- ary epigenetics on a strong theoretical and experimental
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
in an exciting symposium on infectious disease ecology
and evolution. This symposium will be held in Ann
theme of the symposium will be âInfectious disease
naries and thematic symposia, as well as contributed To take advantage of discounted registration, you need
sessions. Scheduled symposia include:
and Diversity in an Era of Ubiquitous Genomics There is an exciting programme that includes both pleArthropod Systematics: are Morphology, Palaeontol- naries and thematic symposia, as well as contributed
ogy and Molecules Coming Together - Algal Systemat- sessions. Scheduled symposia include:
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from invited invited speakers and other contributions.
ICRS mini-symposium “Genomic approaches to coral
We would like to draw your attention to the minisymposium “Genomic approaches to coral reef biology” at the 2012 International Coral Reef Symposium,
eventually seeing you in Cairns! If you have any questions with respect to this mini-symposium, please do
Loretta Johnson (Johnson@ksu.edu), Chair Gretchen An important goal for the mini-symposium is to proHofmann (hofmann@lifescie.ucsb.edu), Vice-Chair
of the topic and important new results. The minisymposium will be an excellent opportunity to shed
26 in Flagstaff, AZ for the 66th International Confer- Call for symposia, workshops and training sessions is
Symposium on CoEvolution 4th - 7th October 2011,
We are pleased to announce a special symposium on
2011 at the Institut Pasteur, Paris. Advances in hygiene and medical care in parallel with the develop- Please go to https://www.jyu.fi/bioenv/en/divisions/ment of antibiotics and mass vaccination in the second eko/coeevolution/coevolution-symposium for more inhalf of the 20th century created the belief that human- formation and online registration or contact as at coity will soon overcome the death-causing burden of in- evo.symposium@jyu.fi. Registration deadline is August
countries. This was however an illusion. The outburst The symposium is organized by the post-docs of the
Symposium âInsect Flightâ, 29-30th August 2011 in http://www.theaga.org/2011/ Registration is $150
the symposium is free, if you want to attend, please
symposium will explore recent research in evolutionary medicine. Participants will have an opportunity to
CAnMove Centre for Animal Movement Research Lund “SSE Symposia”: http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/symposia.html On Saturday, June 18, a workshop will
amples. Lunch will be provided for workshop participants. More information is available under “Outreach Workshop”: http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/workshops.html Register for the symposium lunch and
regarding the symposium please do not hesitate to contact Sophia Engel (sophia.engel@biol.lu.se).
The annual symposium of the American Genetic Asso-
Sign up to join the symposium speakers for lunch here:
Additional support has been provided by the EncycloSymposium and Round Table Discussion
nomics Network and the International Symposium on
Symposium Presenters:
in Biogeography” & symposium on “Biodiversity conservation beyond protected areas” http://Organising Committee Mathematical Models in Ecol- www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/2011Oxford/ogy and Evolution 17 -19 August 2011 Univer- index.html The International Biogeography Society is
University’s Biodiversity Institute Symposium on
information about the conference & symposium, and
The application deadline for the Otto Warburg International Summer School and Research Symposium
Thursday morning, right after the 14th Symposium
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30 AncientDNAsymposium 8
and molecules coming together? is the title of our symposium at the upcoming Systematics Association biennial meeting at Queen1 s University Belfast (Northern
Ireland) on 4-8 July 2011. Our symposium is one of four
main symposia scheduled for the biennial meeting, and
symposium, registration is now open via www.systass
interested in contributing a talk or poster to our symposium to please submit your abstract by 1 June 2011
The backbone of our symposium will be a series of invited talks given by an exciting selection of internationally renowned experts on the biology and palaeontology of arthropods, including Thorsten Burmester, Jason Dunlop, Greg Edgecombe, Georg Mayer, Alessandro Minelli, Jerome Regier, Björn von Reumont, Angelika Stollewerk, and Max Telford. These speakers will
and discussions in our symposium, which we anticipate
Early bird registration for the 8th Systematics Asso- Levels* - A Symposium in Honor of Warren Abrahamciation Biennial, 4-8 July 2011 at Queen’s University son.”
longer included in this price, and can be selected sepaScheduled symposia include: - Next Generation Sys- rately if desired. Registration fees will increase on May
Tentative titles are available on the symposium website.
http://at the Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 3-7 Jan- http://users.jyu.fi/
Symposium on CoEvolution 4th - 7th October 2011,
Event: “Progress in understanding the origins of biodiWe are pleased to announce a special symposium on versity” Date: 27-28 February 2012 Location: UniverCoevolution in Jyväskylä, Finland (October 4th 7th, sity of Jyvaskyla, Finland
Jyvaskyla, Finland. The conference will consist of plenary sessions, four symposia and posters covering recent advances in speciation and adaptation research.
graves, University of Rochester, USA Kerry Shaw, CorPlease go to https://www.jyu.fi/bioenv/en/divisions/nell University, USA Patrik Nosil, University of Coleko/coeevolution/coevolution-symposium for more inorado, USA Ilkka Hanski, University of Helsinki, Finformation and online registration or contact as at coevo.symposium@jyu.fi. Registration deadline is August land
The symposium is organized by the post-docs of the
SYMPOSIUM June 9 - 12, 2011, in Kansas City, USA
posted to symposium website. Wed., May 18 ÂHotel
USDA.Â Symposium attendees are encouraged to attend.
TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM ÂÂ Thursday afternoon, June 9 â“ Pre-Symposium Workshop
WORKSHOPS June 9:Â A pre-symposium workshop, wide RNAi screen for embryonic and metamorphic
damage as well as contamination by microbial and conToni GabaldÃ3 n Center for Genomic Regulation temporary DNA. This symposium aims to highlight
abstract to the ancient DNA symposium described below. / /NEW APPROACHES IN ANCIENT DNA
AncientDNAsymposium
Morning Sessions (9:30- 12:00) Room C-1: [Symposium
1] Evolution of modern human Room S-1: [Symposium
Afternoon Sessions (13:30- 16:00) Room C-1: [Symposium 3] Compensatory fitness interactions and genome
evolution Room S-1: [Symposium 4] Symbiosis as the
Evening Sessions (16:30- 19:00) Room C-1: [Symposium 5] Genome evolution: surprises from microbes
Room S-1: [Symposium 6] Molecular bases of speciation Room S-2: [Workshop 6] Comparative and evolutionary neurogenomics in humans and non-human primates Room S-3: [Workshop 7] Virus evolution Room
Morning Sessions (9:30- 12:00) Room C-1: [Symposium
7] New approaches in ancient DNA Room S-1: [Symposium 8] Origin and diversification of sensory organs
Room S-2: [Symposium 9] Evolutionary systems biology Room S-3: [used for additional workshop or contributed oral presentations] Room S-4: [Workshop 9]
Afternoon Sessions (13:30- 16:00) Room C-1: [Symposium 10] Evolution of genome structure Room S-1:
[Symposium 11] Molecular mechanisms governing morphological divergence of arthropod appendages Room
S-2: [Symposium 12] Evolution as a stochastic process
Symposium] Honoring late Walter M. Fitch Room C-1:
This symposium is aimed at evolutionary biologists, albeit not exclusively. We have planned this meeting
evolutionary ecology and their relationship with experSymposium âInsect Flightâ, 29-30th August 2011
Information about CAnMove and the preliminary pro- and round-tables. The detailed program is here: http:/gramme can be found at our homepage: http://- /www.seminar-mee.org/home/programme < http://canmove.lu.se/node/715 Registration: Attendance of www.seminar-mee.org/home/programme > Registrathe symposium is free, if you want to attend, please tion to the workshop is free, but we strongly recomregister by filling in our online-registration form. The mend all participants to present their work or project
regarding the symposium please do not hesitate to con- < http://www.seminar-mee.org/home/inscription >
Evolutionary Medicine Symposium and Luncheon
http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/symposia.html
(Scroll down to SSE symposia)
This symposium will explore the role of evolutionary
evolutionary research, and where evolutionary principles can be used to improve medical practice. The symposium is part of a larger movement to increase awareness of the role of evolutionary biologists in connecting
The symposium is open to all.
*** Paris Interdisciplinary PhD symposium - June 1315th, 2011, Paris - Registration deadline May 15th ***
We are pleased to announce the 2nd Paris Interdisciplinary PhD symposium, organized by PhD students of
This symposium aims at gathering young researchers
<symposium@fdv-paris.org>
Symposium
event: http://symposium.fdv-paris.org. In addition, held in Porto (Portugal), November 23-25, 2011 is now
during and after the symposium, in particular via a emerging everywhere about the genetic variability of
The deadline for online registration to the symposium
The Paris Interdisciplinary PhD Symposium 2011 team
http://symposium.fdv-paris.org Confirmed speakers:
– Paris Interdisciplinary PhD Symposium 2011 ED
474 Frontiers in Life Sciences http://symposium.fdvparis.org/ Movies of last edition of PIPS (2009) :
>, Linked In< http://events.linkedin.com/ParisInterdisciplinary-PhD-Symposium/pub/634597 >and
There is an exciting programme that includes both plenaries and thematic symposia, as well as a large number Deadline for application: May 20 2011
of contributed sessions. Currently scheduled symposia Registration fee (including board and lodging)
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from invited basis of the affinity of potential participants with the
We would like to invite you to a Symposium on Evo- (Moffitt Cancer Center), Carlo Maley (UCSF), Nicole
to: meetsymposium@gmail.com Registration deadline: Conference Center, Fisher Hall, University of CaliforJune 8th. Registration is not mandatory for attendance nia, San Francisco
follow the link: http://www.zoologi.su.se/Symposium- Carlo C. Maley, Ph.D. Associate Professor Director,
this is the second call for applications to the Otto Warburg International Summer School and Research Symposium (OWS) on Evolutionary Genomics, to be held
speakers from the AGA symposium present case studies. Please see our website to download a flyer and
Attend the AGA symposium 2011 “Genomics and BioMexico. July 19-22, 2011
Being held in conjunction with the 2011 AGA symposium, July 23-26, Guanajuato, Mexico. July 23-26, For more information and application procedures please
cede the AGA symposium 2011 “Genomics and Biodi- Bryan Carstens, Ken Jones, Cei Abreu-Goodger, Scott
Kyoto SMBE Jul27-30 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
The Sixth International Symposium on Molecular In- symposia themes include systematics and biodiversity,
tion services, the genetics of evolution and species isoThe Sixth International Symposium on Molecular In- lation, population ecology, and paleobiodiversity. Subsect Science is the first of the series to be held outside missions for contributed talks and posters in all areas of
of the USA. Previous Symposia, organized by the Uni- ecology and evolution are welcome. Titles and abstracts
By holding the Symposium in Amsterdam, in collaboration with Elsevier, it is hoped that the meeting
Additionally, there will be a symposium for women
SWEEET is a symposium intended to address issues
We are pleased to invite you to the postponed CenPHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY and GENOTYPE x tre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution (CIIE) oneday symposium on ’Wild Immunology“ in Edinburgh
The aim of the symposium is to bring together reLouis Bernatchez (population and quantitative genetsearchers from diverse disciplines to address a central
The symposium aims to bring together evolutionary - A cross-species transcriptomics approach to identify
Klaas.Vandepoele@psb.vib-ugent.be Website: http://- The 2011 Symposium of the American Genetic Assobioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/ Conference& Workshop ciation, to be held from July 23-25 in Irapuato and
geted at all attendees will be delivered in the morning. The meeting opens July 23 with a day-long symposium
GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM June 9 12, 2011, in
symposium.shtml
Arthropod Genomics Symposium, Exploring Diversity,
vancing vector genetics through the power of vector WORKSHOPS A pre-symposium workshop, Genome
California, Riverside Spider silks: Functional and evo- TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM Thursday afternoon, June 9 Pre-Symposium Workshop Thursday
VENUE:Â The symposium will take place at the
USDA. Symposium attendees are encouraged to attend.
WORKSHOPS June 9:Â A pre-symposium workshop,
symposium.shtml and watch for the next announce- June 11.
SYMPOSIUM June 9 â 12, 2011, in Kansas City, USA (CRG) Barcelona, Spain âArthropod genomes as seen
Genomics Symposium, âExploring Diversity, Relat- Pedro L. Oliveira Instituto de BioquÃ’mica MÃdica
be posted to the conference website as details are final- the use of DNA barcoding to these and similar problems. This full-day symposium/workshop has three
TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM ÂÂ Thurs- identification and control of invasive species to share
day afternoon, June 9 â Pre-Symposium Workshop ÂÂ information (e.g., QBOL, IPPC); and 3. Identify opThursday evening, June 9 â Keynote presentation and portunities and priorities for DNA barcoding activities
Kyoto SMBE Jul27-30 CallSymposia
For Symposia: C-1: Centennial Clock Tower Hall First
Therefore, in total, we can have up to 21 symposium
<Symposium application> Proposed Symposium title:
you plan a symposium longer than one time slot, please
Call for symposia and workshops to be held in SMBE (~200 words): Proposed Time slot (such as 30-M): If
plication for symposia and workshops to be held in (such as C-3): Expected list of speakers (name and afSMBE 2011 Kyoto. Please visit its website [http:/- filiation): Possible financial support: SMBE 2011 Or/SMBE2011.lab.nig.ac.jp] for detailed information on ganizing Committee will not support travel fee for any
themselves or other supports. Oral presentation subThere are seven time slots for symposia and workshops
We warmly invite you to a CEE Symposium on “Integrating Ecology into Macroevolutionary Research” to
To register for the symposium and to receive further updates on the schedule for the day please email
We warmly invite you to a CEE Symposium on “Integrating Ecology into Macroevolutionary Research” to
gage a broader community of developers, data producTo register for the symposium and to receive fur- ers, tool creators, and core facility and other research
Plankton 2011: An international symposium on plankton biodiversity and global change in the aquatic systems.
2011. It will seek to identify causes and consequences of long-term changes in plankton communities in fresh and marine waters. The Symposium will
ESEB 2011 Parallel Evolution Symposium - Call for Late bookings will have to take into account that they
abstracts for oral or poster presentations to the symposium “Parallel Evolution” at the ESEB meeting 20-25 2. Regular posters will receive exceptional visibility:
Symposium:
symposium focuses on the genetic and developmental
regarding the symposium. For further information on
for oral and poster presentations in the symposium on
Symposium description
trends. This symposium will explore how theory, empirical data and methodological approaches from diverse fields including community ecology and evolutionary genetics can reveal the processes that underpin
changes observed. The goal of the proposed symposia
this symposium will be a great opportunity to highlight
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster presentations in the symposium on “Experimental evolution across the microbe/macrobe divide” at the ESEB
**ESEB 2011 Evolutionary ecological genomics sympoSymposium description
*The symposium:* Progress in ecological genomics is
model species. This symposium will focus on integrating cutting edge molecular biology in model and non
symposium aims to attract contributions from aquatic
Scientist Symposium, to be held Saturday, April 16,
Katie Peichel (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Cen- the symposium.
For further information on the symposium feel free Baeza, Micaela Martinez-Bakker, Gail Kuhnlein
calls for applications, protocols, and workshop and symposia announcements.
Evolving Biological Sciences), an annual three-day symposium aimed at addressing the retention of female scientists and issues related to the transition of women
WEBS symposium in 2007, 2008, and 2010 were huge
and teaching positions. The symposium will provide
symposium will be held at NESCent (National Evolutionary Synthesis Center) in Durham, NC, November
PacificSymposiumBiocomputing MicrobiomeEvolution
naries and thematic symposia, as well as a large number on studies that use innovative approaches for wildlife
of contributed sessions. Currently scheduled symposia conservation research (e.g. genomic or landscape genetic approaches). Contributions from students are
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from invited
symposia topics include non-invasive monitoring of horSponsors: British Phycological Society, Cambridge mones (post-conference workshop), ecophysiology, and
Symposium: Conservation Genetics V From Genomics
We are pleased to announce a special symposium on
Levels - A Symposium in Honor of Warren Abrahamson.”
Tentative titles are available on the symposium website.
The *G*enomics In Aquaculture symposium 2011, 1417 September 2011 ( www.GIA2011.com ) organizing
June 23rd 2011. The congress will include the following - Nutrigenomics - Larval Quality - Selective Breeding Symposia:
Visit the congress website for details of speakers, special symposia, and submission of abstracts for poster
Registration is now open for the annual symposium of
On the 24th, we will have a day-long symposium at
For your information, Kyoto City is located more than The Nei Lecture, four Plenary talks, and Wal500km away from Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power ter Fitch Student Symposium will be held on
level/July 29 speakers.html For list of symposia
4) Many symposia and workshops now have conand
please visit http://smbe2011.com/firmed speakers. Please see “Symposia and Workshops”
symposia.html
of today, April 1, 85 persons reg(http://smbe2011.com/symposia.html) page, which is
Student Symposium will be held on July 29, 2011. for accessible,reproducible, and transparent computaPlease
For list of symposia and
please visit http://smbe2011.com/- Accessibility: Galaxy enables users without programsymposia.html As of today, April 1, 85 persons mingexperience to easily specify parameters and run
Manchester Molecular and Genome Evolution Symposium will take place on Friday 13th May. The remit
of the symposium is broad and includes all aspects of
The symposium will be a day long event consisting of
We encourage anyone interested to attend the symposium and, if they wish, to submit an abstract. We are
following the symposium.
There are limited places so please register for the symposium online at the URL
about the symposium please contact me (simon.whelan@manchester.ac.uk) or Caroline Aylott
PacificSymposiumBiocomputing
symposium: Mechanisms of speciation in mammals
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster contributions in the symposium “Mechanisms of Speciation
This symposium will address the mechanisms of speciation in mammals, with the intention to providing
Lab publications: www.mol-palaeo-lit.de/papers.php the 7th ISCB Student Council Symposium (SCS7).
woer- The symposium, held in Vienna on Friday July 15 as a
Submission website: http://symposium.iscbsc.org/content/submissions Travel Fellowship information:
http://symposium.iscbsc.org/content/tfsubmission
General information: http://symposium.iscbsc.org
Mayr Symposium, held at Evolution 2011. Talks will be
We hosted a Centre for Ecology & Evolution symposium on Integrating Ecology into Macroevolutionary
Being held in conjunction with the 2011 AGA symposium, July 23-26, Guanajuato, Mexico. July 23-26,
We have received NSF funding for a workshop to precede the AGA symposium 2011 “Genomics and Biodiversity.” The workshop is for graduate students and
speakers from the AGA symposium present case studies. Please see our website to download a flyer and
Attend the AGA symposium 2011 “Genomics and Biodiversity” following the workshop
Dublin SMBE2012 Jun23-26 CallSymposia 2 . . . . . . . 5
The aim of the symposium is to bring together researchers from diverse disciplines to address a central
CallSymposia 2
understanding of the cellular and behavioural interacSMBE 2012: Call for Symposia Six Days to Go!
The deadline to submit your proposal for symposium and epidemiology; of vector ecology and immunity; and
This symposium brings together researchers whose
ers is broad, covering a range of different systems Successful Symposium applications will be confirmed from micro- (bacteria, protozoans) to macro-parasites
A one-day symposium Tuesday November 29, 2011 University of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories, Lecture
The symposium is free, including lunch and refreshments, but please register at: http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/node/329 Nicole Mideo, Junior Fellow Centre for
One day symposium in Edinburgh, UK: “Life in cells, of bumblebees
We are pleased to announce that the 5th CIIE Symposium, “Life in cells, hosts, and vectors: how do parasites You can contact the organisers by e-mailing
via our website: http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/node/329 The Ms Kasia Kokowska Manager, Centre for Immunity, Inaim of the symposium is to bring together researchers fection and Evolution Ashworth Labs, King’s Buildings,
This symposium brings together researchers whose
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
Symposium on November 4, 5, & 6, 2011, in Kansas
conclude on Sunday at noon.Â Please visit the Symposium website, www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , to register for the Symposium, submit abstracts, and reserve
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE:Â www.ecogen.ksu.edu/- consideration. Â Friday, 10/7/11, HOTEL rooms must
9th Annual âGenes in Ecology, Ecology in Genesâ Symposium on November 4, 5, & 6, 2011, in Kansas City.Â
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas conclude on Sunday at noon.Â Please visit the Symposium website, www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , to regState University.
ister for the Symposium, submit abstracts, and reserve
ÂÂÂÂ ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
many people as possible have the opportunity to attend the Symposium this year, WE ARE OFFERING
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE:Â www.ecogen.ksu.edu/- SATURDAY NIGHT BANQUET:Â Join your colsymp2011
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
We are happy to announce the symposium
During this symposium, we intend to foster exchange registration for student members of ASN is only
27-28 February 2012, Jyvaskyla, Finland. The con- £150 (full + Genetics Society member), £140 (stuference will consist of plenary sessions, four symposia dent), £130 (student + Genetics Society member). If
Oregon’s NSF IGERT program on evolution, development and genomics would like to announce that registration is now open for our symposium, titled: “The
The symposium will be held February 10 - 12, 2012
symposia have featured talks from many leaders in the
every expectation that this symposium will be equally
For more information, please visit the symposium web- end-of-conference banquet in one of Oxford?s most
We have deliberately capped registration for this symposium in order to facilitate a more intimate environment and to encourage free discussion between attendees and speakers. As such, if you are interested in
The evolVienna autumn symposium will take place on
lectures from prominent researchers, 16 oral communi- More information int he webpage of the symposium:
cations (to be selected from participants) and 2 poster http://ist.ac.at/news-media/events/event-detail/sessions covering the most up-to-date findings in this article/evolvienna-autumn-symposium/1/ Hope to see
officio in 2015. The VP symposium will be presented
Dublin SMBE2012 Jun23-26 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . 2
modern evolutionary and ecological techniques includCallSymposia
at 8:30 am on Wednesday, October 5 and adjourn at symposia for SMBE2012 in Dublin, Ireland is now open.
pods, population genetics, information systems for aerobiology and biosecurity and general topics. Graduate There will be approximately 24 symposia, but this will
let us know if you have interested graduate students Each symposium will receive funding (approximately
Express at Addison, TX (4355 Beltway Drive, Addison, We would like each symposium to have two organizers.
Ideally a symposium should have two invited speakers
31st, 2011. We will then announce the successful symposia on Monday, November 7th at which time the call
nomics Symposium & i5k Workshop and plan to attend!
NUI Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. P: +353 1 Symposium*-*-*-*-*- MAY 31, 2012 (Thursday
Symposium.âÂ The conference focuses on new insights
VENUE:Â The symposium will take place at the
REGISTRATION is now openâ ...to attend the 9th Annual âGenes in Ecology, Ecology in Genesâ Symposium
on Sunday at noon.Â Please visit the Symposium website, www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , to register for the
Symposium.Â You may also register to attend the optional Saturday night banquet which will be held in the
SYMPOSIUM
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
ESEB Symposia InfluentialSymbionts . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
officio in 2015. The VP symposium will be presented
ESEB Symposia
We are organizing a symposium at the First Joint the link below (or copy and paste into your internet
ESEB Symposia.
want to have a general call for our symposium. If you
shops as well as sponsoring a symposium at the annual
expertise, and will initiate new collaborations. With We would like to invite you to attend II Symposium
ments with a complex network-like interaction. This Germany. The aim of the annual “Molecular Insymposium will explore how theory, empirical data, and teractions” workshop is to give an overview about
Announcement: 7th International Moose Symposium
The 7th International Moose Symposium will take place
Therefore, a theme of the symposium is: Moose in the
Selected papers from the 7th International Moose Symposium will be peer-reviewed and published in a scientific journal Acta Theriologica.
The venue: The symposium will take place in the conPreliminary programme: The symposium will take 4 venient conference hall of the Biaowieza National Park.
of the symposium will be collected from the Warsaw ful if you could forward this message to anyone to whom
For more information about the symposium and to regSpecific topics of interest include but are not limited ister, please visit:
https://www.jyu.fi/bioenv/en/divisions/eko/Gene and genome duplication Gene family evolu- coeevolution/coevolution-symposium Please contact
tion Genome structural variation Algorithms for com- the organizing committee at coevo.symposium@jyu.fi
“Symposium on Coevolution”, 4- 7 October 2011, has
is now available for contributed papers, symposia,
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for Symposia for
for symposia at the 2012 Evolution meetings to be held
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (typically teas, a conference pack, and membership to the
ested in symposia whose topics do not overlap with
those from previous meetings (see SSB website for past The conference will be held at the Rydges Convensymposia), that introduce new ideas or synthesize im- tion Centre in Townsville, situated within the heart of
the status of their proposals. Selected symposia will
SSB Symposium Proposal 2012.
Symposium Committee
Symposium Email: phdsymp2011@ucd.ie Website:
www.ucd.ie/phdsymposium Computational Biology
and Innovation Symposium <phdsymp2011@ucd.ie>
Computational Biology and Innovation PhD Symposium, 6 - 7 December 2011
Please visit the conference website:www.ucd.ie/phdsymposium . The symposium willtake place in University College Dublin (UCD) at the Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research. Theorganisingcommittee of this symposium is composed
symposium, and to register, please visit http://www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/2011Oxford/index.html If you have any questions, the organizing
environment. The symposium offers young researchers
SYMPOSIUM / WORKSHOP on Bayesian inference of
There will be a mini-symposium on Bayesian inference
201108Symposium.html Speakers include: Michael actually applying AD to concrete models. The course
session include BSs, MSc and PhD students’ presentations and academicians moderate the sessions (total 30 June 2012 Call for workshops & symposia closes
training this year, featuring 3 parallel tracks with four attend a *free* Symposium on “Frontiers in Metagenomics” to be held in the beautiful Monsanto Auditoworkshops each, covering seven different topics.
The objective of the Frontiers in Metagenomics Symposium is to expose you to a dazzling range of current
the diverse and very large datasets that are now typical of accomplished scientists. The symposium will span
share best practices with, and learn from, a large community of researchers and support staff who are facing Due to the generous sponsorship of the Mizzou Adthe challenges of data-intensive biology. Galaxy is an vantage Program and the Stadler Genetics Symposium,
spectacular symposium dinner that will be held at Les
Symposium information and registration details can
rooms available in both, and you are encouraged to reg- Symposium Organizing Committee: Michael Calcutt,
This is a reminder of the May 9, 2012 Symposium on
ence Symposium is a one-day meeting intended to high10:30: Romain Garnier (Montpellier, France) Persis- light the cutting edge of research in plant evolution,
The theme of the symposium this year is Major Evo12:00: Tom Little (University of Edinburgh, UK) Adap- lutionary Transitions. In their ~450 million years of
Symposium on Rapid evolution during Biological Invasions. The meeting will last two days and will take place
The 2-day symposium is mainly run by presentations
please see the following website: http://www.ist.ac.at/young-scientist-symposium-2012 Note that registration
Scientist Symposium on human evolution at IST Austria is fast approaching!
informatic applications. With this symposium we aim
Genomics Symposium and i5kWorkshop, May 30-June
*-* Sixth Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium and
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
this link ( http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2012/register.html ) or visit the Register tab on the Symposium website, www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2012 .
Registration Rates for Non-Students: Arthropod Genomics Symposium ONLY- $375 ($475 after 3/30/12)
i5k Workshop ONLY - $100 ($150 after 3/30/12) Combined Symposium and i5k Workshop - $425 ($575 after
Symposium ONLY- $175 ($250 after 3/30/12) i5k
Workshop ONLY - $50 ($100 after 3/30/12) Combined Symposium and i5k Workshop - $200 ($300 after
ISBE Post Conference Symposia (August 18 2012) stress as evolutionary and behavioral constraints V
EMBL-EBI, “Making your genome useful to a wider auThe symposium stress as evolutionary and behavioral
constraints V where are we now? is one of six postKEYNOTE SPEAKER: Gene E. Robinson Entomol- conference symposia that will be held on Saturday, 18
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign “Understanding the Relationship between Genes and Social Behavior: Lessons The aim of the symposium is to examine the evidence
from different fields, countries and seniority. The symposium will be divided into three sessions with talks:
The symposium is free of charge but registration is
(michael.tobler@biol.lu.se) or Caroline Isaksson (caroline.isaksson@biol.lu.se). Registration, more information and detailed program will be posted at http://www.isbe2012lund.org/post-conference-symposia . We
Building | SE-223 62 Lund | Sweden School of Biological Sciences | The University of Sydney HeydonLaurence Building A08 | NSW 2006 Australia Epost: ISBE Post Conference Symposia (August 18 2012) -The
Admission to this symposium is free of charge. Contributors who wish to present a 15-minute oral contribution should send a title and short abstract to Maren
several post-conference symposia the day after The
have also now decided about the post-conference symposia that will be held the day after the regular ISBEmeeting, on August 18 2012. Here is more information:
http://www.isbe2012lund.org/post-conferencesymposia/
Contact: 21.SymposiumDBG@uni-mainz.de
http://www.isbe2012lund.org/post-conference-symposia/
International Symposium “Biodiversity and EvolutionBehavior might play a crucial role in driving speciation ary Biology”.
processes in these groups, including learned mate pref- The symposium is intended to provide the opportuerences, sexual selection and sexual conflict. The role nity for stimulating exchange for botanists interested
post-conference-symposia/
http://- Monday 17th September - Symposium: Evolution of
wellenreuther-coordinator- Lund Postdoctoral Society in lowlands? - Symposium: Next Generation Sequenc*http://ced2.srv.lu.se/lupodnew/contact.aspx*
generation sequencing for plant systematics and evolution - Symposium: Mechanisms of Speciation - invited
21st International Symposium “Biodiversity and Evo- Evening: informal gathering in the Botanic Garden.
lutionary Biology” of the German Botanical Society Tuesday 18th September - Symposium: Evolution
of Tropical Floras - invited speaker: T. Pennington/Edinburgh: Phylogeny, ecology and the historical assembly of tropical forests - Symposium: Pollination and Dispersal Biology - invited speaker: A.
in plants - Open Symposium (topics not specified) Plenary talk - E.Beck/Bayreuth: (Why) Do we need
Wednesday 19th September - Poster Session - Symposium: Evolution of Mediterranean and Arid Floras invited speaker: B.G. Baldwin/Berkeley: Evolutionary patterns and processes in the California Floristic
Province - Symposium: Ontogeny: from Meristems
attend the symposium and, if they wish, to submit an
presented at the drinks reception following the symposium. We are particularly keen to give PhD students
are limited places so please register for the symposium
any questions about the symposium please contact me
Molecular and Genome Evolution Symposium will take
The remit of the symposium is broad and includes
wet-lab experiments. The symposium will be a day long
biological annotation; - Biodiversity and Systematics; - This symposium is included into the ATM programme
symposium.form@mnhn.fr *
We are pleased to announce thesymposium organised
*This international symposium*aims to:
will take place at < http://www.agropolis.fr/pratique/Ideally, the symposium will foster new networks of re- acces.php > Agropolis international in Montpellier,
- A plenary address and two symposia sponsored by the license and give the URL where the source code is
shops/symposia, along with the iEvoBio satellite The deadline for submission is April 2, 2012. We inconference (July 10-11).
Symposium, to be held July 6th in Ottawa, Canada
~ CHECK OUT 1st SYMPOSIUM ON PLANT SIGNALLING & BEHAVIOUR in September 2012 at
Abstracts for the 1st Symposium on Plant Signalling &
The Symposium will cover themes such as Plant Cell Biology & Signalling, Plant Sensory & Behavioural Ecology, and Theoretical Botany.
instructions to submit your abstract... and keep check- Symposium SS42: Neogene global tectonic and climatic
Congress of Ichthyology (http://www.eci-14.ulg.ac.be/). I am hoping that this symposium will be a chance
to help defray registration or travel costs for a few students and postdocs that plan to attend this symposium.
the congress and for submitting abstracts for the symposium is March 12th. Interested parties should feel
I would like to bring to your attention the symposium
Science Symposium Research è Networking è Community è Science
http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/symposium2012/index.html Mark your calendars for the 4th Annual
Research Symposium sponsored by the Tropical Conservation Biology & Environmental Science Program
symposium’s keynote speaker! Alan’s work incorpo- refer to: http://sitemaker.umich.edu/ecss2012/posters.
rates ecology, remote sensing and GIS technologies, Lunch will be provided at the poster session and a dinalong with traditional resource knowledge to better un- ner reception will follow the symposium.
with their peers. There will also be a special symposium (speaker and discussion) about ethics in science.
Scientist Symposium, to be held Sunday, March 25,
the Mayr Symposium during the meeting. All applicants will be notified about selection decisions by May
cants for inclusion in the Mayr Award symposium.
The Mayr symposium will be held at a single venue as collection sites or museums). Applicants may be from
stract submission, registration etc) may be completed therefore invite the emerging next generation of thevia the Conference website at http://biocomp.bio.uni- orists to catalyze this dialogue with a symposium in
philobiosymposium/ Leonard Finkelman
Biology Young Investigators Symposium Theorists have across entomology that involve genomic techniques.
Function A Bicentennial Symposium to Celebrate 200
www.ansp.org/symposium The two-day conference will
Visit www.ansp.org/symposium or email symposium200@ansp.org for meeting information, registration, and details about submitting to the student poster
Symposium: Genomic Adaptation to Ecological Niches.
SYMPOSIUM SCHEDULE Thursday, October 11, make it possible to study this process at the genome
The aim of the symposium is bringing researchers together to present and discuss current developments in
The symposium is organized by the project area D
Funding for this symposium is provided by The National Science Foundation and Kansas State University.
and postdoc travel fellowships to attend the 10th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium. Application and
The 10th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium
symposium details are below or can be found at ecoThis year marks the 10th anniversary of the Ecologi- gen.ksu.edu/symp2012. We look forward to seeing evcal Genomics Symposium and we have put together an eryone October 26th to the 28th in Kansas City.
outstanding and extended lineup of thirteen speakers Travel Fellowships for the 10th Annual Ecological Gethat will cover the latest research results as well as a nomics Symposium
the future. Symposium details can be found at eco- Kansas State University has funds to support student and postdoc travel fellowships to attend the
10th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium (ecoFEATURED SPEAKERS: Jennifer Brisson - Univer- gen.ksu.edu/symp2012) in Kansas City from October
Iowa State University Jack Schultz - University of Mis- young scientists at the symposium.
development of evolvix, a new user friendly model dethe symposium.
workshop on modeling languages at the University of 21st International Symposium Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology of the German Botanical Society
The meeting has four successive SYMPOSIA (10th &
tion at annual society meetings or symposia. Curators
SSB CallProposals Symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
SSB CallProposals Symposia
The Society of Systematic Biologists would like to issue a call for proposals for Symposia to be held at the
will sponsor two symposia, each consisting of 4-6 talks
the organizing theme of the proposed symposium, a list
Symposium speakers: Adam Auton- Albert Einstein College of Medicine Justin Blumenstiel- University of Kansas Francesca Cole- Sloan Kettering Greg
DEADLINE EXTENDED for Symposia Topic Submisour keynote speakers.
Biology Young Investigators Symposium Theorists have
Due to increased interest, we have extended the deadline for Symposia Topic Submission to November 30, long probed, and often crossed, the boundaries between
Visit us online at http://smbe2013.org/2013/Symposia-Submissions.aspx to submit your symposium >From Aristotle to Darwin and beyond the growth
topic. You will be asked to provide a symposium of biological theory has gone hand-in-hand with philotitle, brief abstract, your name, email address, and the sophical inquiry into biological phenomena. The work
your symposia if selected.
therefore invite the emerging next generation of theWhile youre submitting your symposium topic, dont orists to catalyze this dialogue with a symposium in
/sites.google.com/site/philobiosymposium/ Leonard
IMPORTANT DATES: Call for Symposium Topics
Submit a Symposium [http://smbe2013.org/2013/Symposia-Submissions.aspx] Book Your Discounted
The purpose of this message is to announce the follow- (Symposium on Evolutionary Biology and Annual Business Meeting of SIBE members)
THE SYMPOSIUM
The symposium is organized around six principal
meeting’s website and here < http://cewm2013.org/Attendance of the scientific sessions of the symposium nl.php > for subscribing to our newsletter!
related to the themes of the symposium, but selection
to register to the upcoming Symposium on “Causes and
the poster sessions, to attend the 3-day symposium, to
We call for mini-symposia (3 or 6 talks), poster sessions CAnMove Postdoctoral Fellow Aquatic Ecology,
Upcoming Symposium on “Causes
Symposium on Phylomedicine (March 23-24, 2012)
sessions will be selected from those submitted for consideration by 3rd February. There will be poster sessions and also opportunities for small symposia to be
Free for arranging associated symposia Genetics Society postgraduate symposium
Scientist Symposium on the topic of human evolution
informatic applications. With this symposium we aim
Symposium*-*-*-*-*- MAY 31, 2012
Symposium website: http://www.k-state.edu/agc/We are pleased to announce the following confirmed symp2012 Keynote Speaker: + Gene E. Robinson,
young-scientist-symposium-2012 Note that registration Michel R. Kanost, Biochemistry, Kansas State Univeris strictly limited to 140 people. Unfortunately as this is sity; Initial Insights from the Manducasexta Genome +
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
Symposium and i5k Workshop, May 30-June 2, Kansas workshop and arthropod genomics-related poster sesCity. Please register online today at: http://www.k- sions. A few poster abstract submissions will be selected for oral platform presentations. Postdoctoral,
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & i5k
Arthropod Genomics Symposium begins with keynote
Arthropod Genomics Symposium Platform and Poster
Sessions 5:30-7:30 pm - Symposium Workshop Evening,
Also, note that we accept proposals also for “Postconference” symposia. These one-day symposia take
We are pleased to announce that the next conference of proposals for post-conference symposia is January 31,
http://www.isbe2012lund.org/post-conferencesymposia/ Sincerely yours,
Registration, abstract submission for symposia and
The core of the meeting will be four successive symposia
- 11th January: Symposia and poster sessions 12th
manipulators or therefore are organizing a symposium
FA0701 final meeting will be held at Oleron Island We have two slots left and since our whole symposia is
Submission of abstracts for the 1st Symposium on Plant
The Symposium will cover themes such as Plant Cell BiDEADLINE FOR EARLY REGISTRATION DIS- ology & Signalling, Plant Sensory & Behavioural EcolCOUNT: 30 APRIL 2012
and two symposia sponsored by each society. - With
by our ecologists. - Various optional pre- and postcongress workshops/symposia, along with the iEvoBio
Ecologists Symposium 2012
Symposium announcement
We would like to invite all non-tenured (post-grad - fellow) researchers currently working in the North of England to a one-off symposium held at the Institute for
The symposium will span 2 days, with a total of 20
dae (Sorex, Crocidura)... This symposium seeks to en- an intimate atmosphere, so be sure to register early to
symposium during the meeting. All applicants will be well as review articles that will stimulate, contribute,
cants for inclusion in the Mayr Award symposium.
The Mayr symposium will be held at a single venue as Jeremy L. Marshall
more information on the Symposium, please contact
Mike Braun (braunm@si.edu). We look forward to seeing you at the Smithsonian workshop and symposium!
We are writing to let you know about a workshop and The University of Georgia Randy Linder, The Universymposium that we will hold on May 20-22, 2012, at sity of Texas Etsuko Moriyama, The University of Nethe Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC. The braska Tandy Warnow, The University of Texas
and will take place on May 20 and 21; the symposium
Dublin SMBE2010 Jun23-26 EvoDevoSymposium . . 2
EvolutionaryNetworksSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Symposium on Phylomedicine March 23-24, 2012 Arizona State University Tempe, Arizona, USA
EvoDevoSymposium
We invite you to submit an abstract to the symposium
Symposium “Genomic basis of http://www.smbe2012.org/scientific-content/call-forEvo-Devo”
abstracts.html Symposium “The complex relationship
applications and questions. Our symposium will feature speakers addressing the fundamental relationships
If you have any question regarding this symposium
If you have any question regarding this symposium
evolution to submit abstracts to the SMBE symposium
We invite you to submit an abstract to the symposium
symposium will include presentations of network approaches in the evolutionary study of proteins, genomes
species, tissues, and developmental stages? In this symposium we hope to bring together researchers with a variety of perspectives working on these questions using
EvolutionaryNetworksSymposium
of host-virus interactions” symposium to take place at
uary 2012, and further details can be found at http://Networks: Proteins, Genomes, Organisms Symposium
www.smbe2012.org/ Symposium:
Symposium on Evolutionary Networks: Proteins, remarkable models for evolution in general. They parasitize taxa throughout the tree of life and are locked in
a coevolutionary dance with their hosts. The symposium seeks to explore host-virus coevolution, considering changes in virulence, prevalence, and host range
be considered. The symposium will focus on variation
for the Microbial Genome Evolution Symposium are
Symposium on Microbial Genome Evolution Highthroughput sequencing makes it possible for the first
symposium will provide an overview of the progress
and Phenotypic Evolvability Symposium, are now open.
*Symposium summary:* Evolvability is the capacity of
In this symposium we will examine the concept of evolvability in depth. We have chosen world-class speakers
DNA sequence data sets. Specifically, the symposium
Data’ symposium are now open. SMBE 2012 is taking place in Dublin 23-26 June.
Symposium on Population Genetic Inference from
for this symposium, which will form a part of the SMBE
Symposium detail:
This symposium will cover current research on the de- isolation.
This symposium will bring together recent work seeking to describe the nature of these dynamics from both
posters and symposia are being accepted through January 7, 2012.
Symposia already scheduled include:
Additional Symposium proposals are welcome and
21st International Symposium “Biodiversity and Evo- Time Schedule and Deadlines - 01 March 2012 - 2nd
International Symposium “Biodiversity and Evolution- - Angelika Schmitt - Christian Uhink
The symposium is intended to provide opportunity for
Venue The symposium will be held on the campus of
Preliminary program The preliminary program includes eight symposia, to be opened by internationally
Symposia - Next Generation Sequencing in Plant Syswww.ksu.edu/agc and watch for the next announcetematics and Evolution - Ontogeny: from Meristems to
Phenotypic Diversity - Pollination and Dispersal Biology - Mechanisms of Speciation - Evolution of Tropical *-*-* Sixth Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium
Evolution of Mountain Floras - Open symposium (top- 2012
nomics Symposium begins with keynote presentation
Biology, University of Florida +Angela E. Douglas, En- Friday, June 1 Symposium Platform and Poster Sestomology, Cornell University +Giles Duffield, Biologisions Friday, June 1, 5:30-7:30 pm - Symposium Workcal Sciences and Eck Institute for Global Health, Unishop Friday evening, June 1 Dinner on your own Saturversity of Notre Dame +Karl Kjer, Entomology, Rut- day, June 2 Symposium Platform and Poster Sessions
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
model organisms and those of agricultural or health REGISTRATION: Registration will open in Janrelevance. The program will include platform presen- uary! Monitor our website, www.k-state.edu/agc/tations, a welcome reception, a bioinformatics-related symposium.shtml and watch for the next announceworkshop and arthropod genomics-related poster ses- ment.
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & i5k K-State Arthropod Genomics Center Division of BiolWORKSHOP Wednesday, May 30 i5k Community ogy, Kansas State University 116 Ackert Hall, ManWorkshop - 7:15-8:15 am Registration - 8:30 am -5:30 hattan, KS 66506-4901 dmerrill@k-state.edu , www.kpm Speaker sessions - 7:30 pm-10:00 pm Poster ses- state.edu/agc
“Post-conference symposia”, around more or less welldefined topics related to behavioural ecology and related fields, which will take place after the ISBE, on
suggestions for post-conference symposia is January 31
F) Auréline Bonin (Univ. Grenoble, F) Laurent Exhttp://www.isbe2012lund.org/post-conferencecoffier (Univ. Bern, CH) Felix Gugerli (WSL Birmenssymposia/ General questions regarding ISBE 2012, dorf, CH) Stéphane Joost (EPFL, CH) Christian Lexer
It is my pleasure to invite you to the very 1st Symposium on Plant Signalling & Behaviour to be held in
cal ecologists, behavioural ecologists, community ecoloWe are happy to announce the symposium
parative). As such, the Symposium will cover themes
Please visit the web site of the meeting here http://During this symposium, we intend to foster exchange spsb2012.com/ and book these dates in your diary!
land to a one-off symposium held at the Institute for
The symposium will span 2 days, with a total of 20
symposium achieves it’s aim of fostering communication, we have capped registration in order to maintain
Lynn Margulis SymposiumXA Life in Science: in Memory and Celebration
cordially invites you to a Symposium, March 23-25,
Ecologists Symposium 2012
www.geo.umass.edu/margulis symposium.html >.
Evolution, Development & Genomics Symposium 2012
We are pleased to announce the availability of scholarships for travel to and attendance of our symposium:
The symposium is being organized by students and
IGERT program on evolution, development and genomics. It will be held February 10 - 12, 2012 in Portland, OR at the Nines Hotel. Previous IGERT symposia have featured talks from many leaders in the field
We would like this opportunity to thank confirmed expectation that this symposium will be equally engagsponsors including: The Genetics Society, The Royal ing and positively influence the future of the field. We
For more information, please visit the symposium website (www.evodevo2012.org) or see the attached flyer.
tigators. This year will see the conference broaden its The meeting will consist of plenary sessions, symposia,
four plenary lectures and almost 800 posters. The conference has 26 symposia that are centered on specific
topics and there is a plenary symposium for early-stage
Symposium speakers: Adam Auton- Albert Ein- 3532 Fax: +44 (0)141 330 5971
Save the datesK and plan to attend the 10th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium on October 2628, 2012, in Kansas City. We will convene in the Kansas
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Ecological Genomics Symposia and we have put together an
the symposium provides a forum to share latest cuttingedge research findings and ideas and to foster collaborative efforts to improve feline and human health. Due to
several requests we extended the deadlines for early registration and abstract submission for the 11th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium (IFRRS)
The symposium will start with a workshop on bioinPOSTER SESSIONS: A poster sessions will be held on formatics/genomic tools and a session on feline geFriday evening and Saturday afternoon. Poster topics nomics/viral evolution. The following days will cover
All informations for the symposium can be found on
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas our website at www.ifrrs.org.
11th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium August, 26th- 29th 2012 , Leipzig, Germany
the 11th International Feline Retrovirus Research Symposium (IFRRS) to be held August 26-29, 2012 in
Leipzig (Germany) and would like bring the symposium
The IFRRS is a bi-annual conference which brings together renowned experts from the international scientific community who study feline retroviruses and related topics and employ feline models of retroviral research. The symposium focuses on the latest advances
Symposium (FroSpects/Lund): “The role of behaviour
We would like to remind about the FroSpectssymposium “The Role of Behaviour in non-adaptive
Lund (Sweden) on August 18 2012. This one-day symposium is open to anybody who wish to attend, and we
Lund, Sweden (http://www.isbe2012lund.org/postconference-symposia).
The aim of the symposium is to examine the evidence
from different fields, countries and seniority. The symposium will be divided into three sessions with talks:
For more information about the symposium, check this
This speciationsymposium is one of several so-called “Post-conference
symposia” that will take place after the ISBE-congress
symposium you wish to attend and submit your
The symposium is free of charge but registration
any questions, please contact Maren Wellenreuther will be posted at http://www.isbe2012lund.org/postconference-symposia by mid June.
ISBE post conference symposium entitled “Recent developments in sexual selection research: History, trends
and new horizons”. This symposium will take place
ISBE post-conference symposium on “Oxidative
stress as evolutionary and behavioral constraints where are we now?”, Saturday 18 August 2012, In this symposium, we take a fresh look at the state of
females and 3) the genetics of sexual selection. A selection of experts will introduce each topic, and the symposium will end with both group and joint discussions.
You can read more about the symposium here: http://www.isbe2012lund.org/post-conference-symposia/ Invited speakers:
**Participation in the symposium is free of charge and
You can sign up to this symposium and
other post-conference symposia through this
21st International Symposium Biodiversity and Evolu- species and ancestral genome organization. Due to the
not replace education activities during the main meeting which include the Education Symposium, an education strand, and and posters. A planning meeting
SSE Education Symposium at Evolution 2012
http://bit.ly/SSE EdSymposium2012
SYMPOSIUM IN HONOR OF
A one-day symposium entitled Evolution and DNA
3, 2012. The symposium will recognize the scientific
November 3 after the symposium.
nual program meetings, smaller question-driven workshops, symposia, and trainee exchanges. The membership includes 20 researchers from 13 institutions, including seven across Canada, five in the U.S., and one
fourth annual “Symposium for women entering ecology
Oceans Canada Dr. Lalita Acharya, Science and Technology Division, Library of Parliament Dr. Jenny Carpenter, Freelance journalist. The format of the symposium encourages active participation between speakers
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . .7
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 CallSymposia 2 . . . . . . . . 8
Symposium speakers: Adam Auton- Albert Einstein College of Medicine Justin Blumenstiel- University of Kansas Francesca Cole- Sloan Kettering Greg
CallSymposia
CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF SYMPOSIUM PROKey Dates
Deadline for the submission of symposium proposal is
Symposia typically start with one or two invited speakers (40 min plus 5 for discussion) and are followed by
submitted talks (15 min plus 5 for discussion). Symposia take place in one, two or a maximum of three
95-min windows. On special request, symposia can take
A symposium proposal consists of:
provide financial support for organizing a symposium.
CallSymposia 2
you think this makes a good subject for the ESEB CALL FOR SUBMISSION OF SYMPOSIUM PROCongress and propose up to 4 possible (alternative) in- POSALS
vited speakers (please check beforehand whether these Deadline for the submission of symposium proposal is
will pay the registration fee for the (one or two) invited Symposia typically start with one or two invited speakspeakers in symposia. Please indicate whether you can ers (40 min plus 5 for discussion) and are followed by
generate financial support for accommodation or trav- submitted talks (15 min plus 5 for discussion). Symposia take place in one, two or a maximum of three
95-min windows. On special request, symposia can take
5. Submission: Send an email before 15 July 2012 A symposium proposal consists of:
selected by the Scientific Committee. We expect to de- 1. One organizer (for all communication) and one cocide on symposia by September. Symposia proposals organizer (as a replacement) with contact details. Both
provide financial support for organizing a symposium.
6. A call for talks submission will be sent out in November 2012. Symposium organizers must be prepared to 2. Topic: Please provide a title as well as a 5-line short
screen submissions for their symposium (online evalua- summary.
Assistant Professor Computational Biology and Pop- speakers in symposia. Please indicate whether you can
cide on symposia by September. Symposia proposals
6. A call for talks submission will be sent out in November 2012. Symposium organizers must be prepared to
screen submissions for their symposium (online evaluation system).
ESF-symposium: “The role of Behaviour in NonTel:
We would like to remind everybody who are interested about a small and informal ESF-funded symposium in August 2012 entitled “The Role of Behaviour
This symposium is one of several “post-conference symposia” that will take place after the ISBE-meeting (“Behavioural Ecology Congress) August 12 - 17 2012 (also
Participation in the ESF-symposium is free of charge,
You will be able to register and submit abstracts (for up to this symposium and other post-conference symboth talks and poster presentations) between now and posia through this link (deadline June 15, 2012):
Here is more information about the symposium:
eastern Ecology and Evolution Conference and is announcing a call for abstracts for presentations of research. This is a scientific symposium aimed at graduate, post-doctoral, and undergraduate researchers in
primary and co-authors. Information about poster and the first annual symposium of the Centre for Organistalk requirements is available on the SEEC website. mal Studies (COS) entitled “At the Roots of Stemness”
The symposium will take place at the University of
Registration for the symposium, which is free of charge,
COS Symposium “At the Roots of Stemness” Evolution of regeneration mechanisms and stem cell
lomedicine Symposium March 23-24, 2012 in Tempe,
Arizona, USA. This symposium is sponsored by the for early registration is April 15, 2012. This congress,
Vous n’avez jamais vu le pont d’Avignon ? Super : symposia and plenary talks by Profs. Hopi Hoekstra
Theatre 3, Ashworth Laboratories, University of Edinburgh. You can now register via our website: http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/node/336 This will be a one-day symposium designed to connect evolutionary biology to inDurham Recombination Jul14-17
born into. This symposium will explore the potential
You can download the Symposium poster here. http://Brian Charlesworth- University of Edinburgh, UK
This is an invitation to the applied conservation genetics symposium and workshop that will be held as part of
We have invited three plenary speakers to cover and 1. Conservation Genetic Applications Symposium
Conservation Biology, Glasgow between 28th August1st September 2012 (the exact days on which the symposium and workshop will be taking place will be confirmed soon)
Symposium & workshop speakers include: Jann
to the symposium, after the 31th of January conference submission deadline, please contact Helen Senn
http://www.rzss.org.uk/research/appliedconservation-genetics-symposium-workshop-eccb-2012
Symposium website: http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2012 Keynote Speaker: + Gene E. Robinson,
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
Registration is OPEN for the Arthropod Genomics workshop and arthropod genomics-related poster sesSymposium and i5k Workshop, May 30-June 2, Kansas sions. A few poster abstract submissions will be seCity. Please register online today at: http://www.k- lected for oral platform presentations. Postdoctoral,
Symposium*-*-*-*-*- MAY 31, 2012
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & i5k
Arthropod Genomics Symposium begins with keynote
Arthropod Genomics Symposium Platform and Poster
Sessions 5:30-7:30 pm - Symposium Workshop Evening,
symposium will bring together researchers from both
Post-conference Symposium on THE EVOLUTION OF 13. Prospective speakers and authors must submit the
* Vincent Moulton (University of East Anglia, UK). STUDENT SATELLITE CMD SYMPOSIUM (**May
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THESE SYMPOSIA,
vites you to attend the following symposia at the annual Morphology& Development section Canadian Society
MAIN CMD SYMPOSIUM **(May 10, 2012)**: Metamorphic Transitions in Animals: An Evolutionary Developmental Perspective
- A plenary address and two symposia sponsored by
workshops/symposia, along with the iEvoBio satellite
Symposium SS42: Neogene global tectonic and climatic
Ecologists Symposium 2012
NEYEES is a small, informal symposium aimed at all
The symposium will span 2 days, with a total of 20
Ecologists Symposium 2012
NEYEES is a small, informal symposium aimed at all
symposium (speaker and discussion) about ethics and
The meeting will consist of plenary sessions, symposia,
scientists at the Undergraduate Research Symposium.
the Mayr Symposium during the meeting. All applicants will be notified about selection decisions by May
Sydney Cameron) will select a maximum of 16 applicants for inclusion in the Mayr Award symposium.
The Mayr symposium will be held at a single venue as
in conjunction with the 6th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium, May 31 to June 2, 2012)
Arthropod Genomics Symposium). Participants will
the i5k Workshop and Arthropod Genomics Symposium can be found at: http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2012 .
A Symposium brochure/flyer is available at: http:/-
PBI 100 Symposium June 2012 - www.jic.ac.uk/events/pbi
from top scientists in the field, and develop collaborations with their peers. There will also be a special symposium (speaker and discussion) about ethics in science.
inburgh is a charitable body, registered in Scotland, Award Symposium - awarding two distinguished theorists in ecology and evolutionary biology.
of the discipline. The symposium is organized by the
There will be six post-conference symposia (see details
to register for each symposium online
for the symposia, so please check the details here
symposia/* Note that the post-conference symposia Evolutionary Biology Meeting at Marseilles, Septemare free of charge and are organized independently ber 18-21, 2012, are open. Please visit the web
from the ISBE. There is thus no need to register at the site of the meeting http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evolISBE conference to participate in these symposia.
*Post Conference Symposia (invited speakers in brackets)*
- A plenary address and two symposia sponsored by
workshops/symposia, along with the iEvoBio satellite
workshops/symposia, along with the iEvoBio satellite
- A plenary address and two symposia sponsored by
As part of the 1st Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology the ESEB are supporting a symposium on:
“The physiological mechanisms that shape life histories” A symposium to help explain how, when, and
http://www.confersense.ca/Evolution2012/symposia.htm
Information about symposium
symposium highlights current research that uses novel
http://www.confersense.ca/Evolution2012/symposia.htm
We invite applications from PhD students and a limited Symposium Organizing Committee: Michael Calcutt,
The Organizing Committee would like to invite you to Protistology (ISEP), we invite you to attend their comattend a *free* Symposium on “Frontiers in Metage- bined 2012 meeting, in Oslo, the capital of Norway. The
applications which will be presented by a stellar group The webpage for registration, submission of abof accomplished scientists. The symposium will span stracts and information is http://www.protist2012.org
vantage Program and the Stadler Genetics Symposium,
spectacular symposium dinner that will be held at Les
overlooking the Missouri River in Rocheport, Missouri. Microbial Evolution Research Group (MERG) DepartSymposium information and registration details can be
Frontiers in Phylogenetics Spring Symposium
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . 4
Scharer University of Basel Zoological Institute Evolutionary Biology Vesalgasse 1 4051 Basel Switzerland DEADLINE EXTENDED for Symposia Topic Submission to SMBE 2013
Email: lukas.scharer@unibas.ch Homepage: http://- Due to increased interest, we have extended the deadevolution.unibas.ch/scharer/index.htm Lukas Schärer line for Symposia Topic Submission to November 30,
Visit us online at http://smbe2013.org/2013/Symposia-Submissions.aspx to submit your symposium
topic. You will be asked to provide a symposium
your symposia if selected.
This meeting will provide a lively forum for discus- While youre submitting your symposium topic, dont
We want to hear from you! Do you have a symposium
to help develop the content of SMBE2013. Symposium
IMPORTANT DATES: Call for Symposium Topics 12th International Colloquium on Endocytobiology and
Submit a Symposium [http://smbe2013.org/2013/- Nova Scotia, CANADA
Symposia-Submissions.aspx] Book Your Discounted Dear Colleagues,
CallSymposia
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA
Help us develop content at SMBE 2013! We are currently accepting proposals for symposia topics online at
http://smbe2013.org. If you are interested in submitting a topic, you will be asked to provide a symposium
http://smbe2013.org/2013/SymposiaSubmissions.aspx .
Attendance of the scientific sessions of the symposium
of Life Science and Biotechnology of the University of related to the themes of the symposium, but selection
(Symposium on Evolutionary Biology and Annual BusiYoung participants (not faculty) who intend to particness Meeting of SIBE members)
THE SYMPOSIUM
The symposium is organized around six principal
Upcoming Symposium on
The meeting is built around four successive SYMPOSIA (10th & 11th January) each with a suite of
We would like to announce the upcoming 3-day symposium on “*Causes and Consequences of Organism Dis- 1. Island Biogeography: new syntheses (Organizpersal*” from *January 30th to February 1st, 2013,* ers: Rob Whittaker & Kostas Triantis). 2. Beyond
The registration to the symposium is free of charge. PAPERS (12th January) on key topics: i. Island bioWe encourage participants to attend or bring posters to geography ii. Neotropical biogeography iii. Climateshare their work during the symposium and to join us
inary program has four vacant slots that will be selected Quaternary paleoecology vii. Phylogeography viii. Maamong the submitted abstracts for poster presentation. rine biogeography ix. Natural disturbance biogeograRegistration and information on the symposium phy x. Global-scale biogeography xi. Hot topics in
await a confirmation for the symposium before booking any extra hotel nights or flights, as the maximum
Symposium and Annual National Science Meeting
Symposium
The International Symposium:
The International Symposium will celebrate 30 years
Insects have played a major role in all these developments, as the symposium and the accompanying volume will highlight.
londonevolu- Symposium speakers to include: Göran Arnqvist (Uption@gmail.com
Symposia and Workshops
01 - GfBS-Symposium: Small but manifold: Protist diversity 02 - Swiss Systematic Society-Symposium: Evolution of parasites and parasitoids 03 - Svenska Systematikföreningen-Symposium: Phylogenetic methods
04 - Société Française de Systématique-Symposium:
Cryptic species 05 - The Systematics AssociationSymposium: Animal venoms 06 - NOBIS AustriaSymposium: Estimate of biodiversity in space and time
SYMPOSIUM SPEAKERS to follow shortly.
For further details of the Royal Entomological Society’s International Symposium “Thirty Years of
It is a pleasure to announce a symposium focused on
It is a pleasure to announce a symposium focused on
Additional related topics will be discussed in other symposia and workshops offered at BioSyst.Eu2013 - to set an excitingly powerful framework for studying
The Evolutionary Epigenetics symposium is being Additional related topics will be discussed in other symsponsored by the Linnean Society of London, which is posia and workshops offered at BioSyst.Eu2013, which
CallSymposiaProposals SocietySystBiology . . . . . . . . 88
MolecularEcologyOnlineSymposium Oct24 . . . . . . . . 89
The Society of Systematic Biologists would like to issue a call for proposals for Symposia to be held at the
will sponsor two symposia, each consisting of 4-6 talks
the organizing theme of the proposed symposium, a list
CallSymposiaProposals
MolecularEcologyOnlineSymposium
We held a Molecular Ecology Symposium at the Joint
of EOL in biological research - it is time to see what event on October 24th. The Symposium speakers will
lines on July 10 and December 1. Proposals for SabVideos of the symposium talks from the Ottawa meet- baticals may be for up to a full year. We also accept
We are pleased to announce the Symposium/Workshop
The symposium (February 16) will feature talks on new
The current list of speakers at the symposium includes:
the symposium and workshop is free. Travel awards University of Texas at Austin Etsuko Moriyama, The
We would like to remind you of our two-day symposium on Evolutionary Applications. There are still
symposium that aims to foster collaboration between
10th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium October
26 to 28, 2012 Kansas City Country Club Plaza Symposium website:Â http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2012
This year marks the 10th ANNIVERSARY of the Ecological Genomics Symposium. We have put together
last 10 years, as well as challenges and opportunities for the future.Â Symposium details can be found
VENUE:Â The symposium will take place at the
Plaza in Kansas City, Missouri.Â Reserve your hotel room online by visiting the Symposium website.Â
Ecological Genomics Symposium.Â The fellowships are
at the symposium.Â Complete applications are to be
MITTED POSTER ABSTRACTS WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTATIONS. InstrucFUNDING for this symposium is provided by The Na- tions for submitting your abstract online are at: http:/tional Science Foundation and Kansas State University. /ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2012/abstract.html . DEADLINE: Friday, September 28, 2012.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
tan, KSÂ 66506-4901 ÂÂ www.ecogen.ksu.edu by Doris by visiting the Symposium website. Deadline: September 28, 2012.
10th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium
Symposium website: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2012
This year marks the 10th ANNIVERSARY of the Ecological Genomics Symposium. We have put together an
the future. Symposium details can be found at ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2012 . The meeting will convene at
After the success of the 2011 Göttingen mini symposium on evolutionary biology, the GOEvol organization
mini symposium/workshop has been set to Tuesday,
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by The Na- Göttingen. The meeting is open to everyone wanting
travel awards to attend the Ecological Genomics Symposium. The fellowships are supported by the U.S. National Science Foundation (IOS-1244871) with the goal
young scientists at the symposium. The deadline for
the symposium, please register athttp://goevol.unigoettingen.de/contact-form-2/index.php Best regards,
symposium will take place in Sevilla, Spain, organized
hosting the third annual *PhD Symposium in Computational Biology and Innovation *this December. Abstract submission for this event is due to close on *October 15th.*
Americo Vespucio s/n 41092 Sevilla Spain Tel. (W) (www.ucd.ie/phdsymposium).
PhD Symposium Committee
*PhD Symposium in Computational Biology and Innovation, 5 - 7 December 2012*
Please visit the conference website for further information: www.ucd.ie/phdsymposium
The symposium will take place in University College
Dublin (UCD) at the Conway Institute of Biomolecular and Biomedical Research. The organising committee of this symposium is composed of PhD students of
A one-day symposium entitled “Experimental Evolution and DNA” will be held at Stony Brook University
on November 3, 2012. The symposium will recognize
to the symposium website for information on the speakers, banquet, and registration:
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/symposium For further
environment. The symposium offers young researchers
Manolis Kellis, MIT, USA Prof. Mihaela Zavolan, Symposium: World Leaders in Evolutionary Medicine
Biozentrum Basel, Switzerland Dr. Sven Nelander, Friday Sept 14 Special Symposium 8:30 AM-Noon in
vation PhD Symposium Committee
*/Symposium Sponsors:/* Irish Research Council
Symposium Email: phdsymp2012@ucd.ie Website:
www.ucd.ie/phdsymposium PhD Symposium 2012 Lectures: Tuesdays at 4 PM at The School of Public
UCSF (Special Location: Danto Aud. in CV CenA Symposium and Lecture Series at the University of ter) Evolutionary insights for understanding, preventMichigan
Special Kick-off symposium Friday Sept 14th
a mailing list for future announcements regarding registration, conference format, and calls for symposium
We would like to draw your attention to a two-day symposium on evolutionary applications:
symposium that aims to foster collaboration between
We would like to draw your attention to a two-day symposium on evolutionary applications:
symposium that aims to foster collaboration between
The meeting has four successive SYMPOSIA (10th &
November 15th, 2012 The symposium will be part of colour-banded birds and searching for nests. Must be
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 SymposiaDescriptions . . 6
32nd New Phytologist Symposium Plant interactions
The goal of this symposium is to bring together researchers working in a wide range of disciplines in plant
range from molecular approaches to ecosystem implications. The symposium will take place over three days
http://www.newphytologist.org/symposiums/view/2
We would like to draw your attention to a symposium
ganism Database (GMOD) Community Meeting, to be Symposium description: Balancing selection and the
+1-617-525- of symposia at previous SMBE meetings. This sympo4705
from the across the tree of life. The symposium will also
We excited to announce the symposium, “Molecu- Vinny Lynch, vjlynch@chicago.edu Joe Thornton,
announce the symposium “Where did the junk go”?
inquires related to the symposium please contact Wo- Günter Wagner (Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary jciech Makalowski at wojmak@uni-muenster.de. I exBiology & Yale Systems Biology Institute, Yale Univer- pect very exciting discussion on this hot topic.
no more. This symposium will discuss the current understanding of these not so far ago obscure areas of the
The integral part of the symposium will be general discussion of Ohnos idea and its place in todays biology.
symposium, we invite contributions highlighting the biBarcelona, Spain)
morphological evolution. We hope that this symposium
SymposiaDescriptions
announce a symposium on “Noncoding RNAs in development and evolution”. Abstract submissions are open
Symposia
Science Program (including symposia descriptions) is
Chicago Plant Science Symposium 2013 The Field Museum
We are pleased to announce the third year of the annual Chicago Plant Science Symposium. This series is
of the greater Chicago area for a one day symposium
The theme of the symposium this year is *“Old Questions, New Tools.” *Some questions in plant science
August 18th - 22nd, 2013 Dalhousie University, Halifax, developed. The symposium this year will explore a variety of these “old questions” and the new discoveries
Travel Awards to attend “World Congress on Evolu- proudly announce the Young Scientist Symposium
2013, an interdisciplinary one-day symposium entirely
(www.nsf.gov/statistics/wmpd). As such, application The IST Austria Young Scientist Symposium 2013 Unis restricted to US-based graduate students that are: derstanding Shape: in silico and in vivo at IST Austria,
symposium-2013/ and see the attached
This is the first announcement for the 2013 Symposium of the American Genetic Association, to be held
Young Scientist Symposium on Friday April 26th 2013. More
http://www.certain.com/system/profile/web/The topic for this year’s symposium will be “Under- index.cfm?PKwebID=3D0x44728099a8&varPage=standing Shape: in silica and in vivo”.
This symposium aims to bring together people with dif- Deparment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Scott
please see the following website: http://www.ist.ac.at/- Stevison, University of California, San Francisco, Instiyoung-scientist-symposium-2013 Unfortunately as this tute for Human Genetics Sara Via, University of Maryis a free event, we are unable to provide funding for land, Department of Biology John Willis, Duke Univertravel for delegates or assist with VISAs or accommo- sity, Biology Department
This symposium seeks to provide a platform for scientists that are working towards the integration of ecology and genomics in the study of colour polymorphic
To register and submit your abstract for this symposium, please follow the instructions on the congress
SYMPOSIUM: The evolution and maintenance of heritable colour polymorphisms: from ecology to genomes
Marie Curie Postdoctoral Researcher Department of BiSymposium description: Polymorphisms are found in a ology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund, SWEDEN
ESEB Symposium on “Early germ-soma segregation”
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium “Evolutionary consequences of an early germ-soma segregation”, to take
to reevaluate this hypothesis. This symposium explores
the age of the father. On the occasion of these new discoveries, this symposium will discuss the importance of
conflict between the levels of selection in a multicellular individual. This symposium will bring together students working on the evolution of multicellularity and
participate in our symposium on “Non-genetic transfer
the Volkswagen Foundation for all symposium participants.
Symposium description: To cope with parasites and
addressed in this symposium in systems ranging from
We are glad to invite you to participate to the symposium
for the *symposium * *ADVANCES IN QUANTITA- (ESEB), in Lisbon, Portugal, 19 - 24 August 2013.
Symposium
Symposium description: Applying a rigorous evolutionary framework to understand human biology and behaviour present numerous challenges. However, many
of this symposium is to provide a diverse overview of the
this symposium to recent evolutionary change (specifically from from the end of Pleistocene - 10,000 years
of species diversification, and the symposium goal is to
This symposium is part of the European Science Foundation’s Research Networking Programme Frontiers
have been drawn from molecular studies without sufficient consideration of the functional/organismal phenotype. In this symposium we aim to bridge these
Abstract Deadline for ESEB Symposium on Mecha- require an integrative approach, and it is the major aim
of our symposium to help foster such an integration.
The deadline for abstract submission for the 2013 ESEB https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia
abstract submission for this symposium is now open at:
our symposium on the MECHANISMS OF TRADE- 28 February 2013.
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizAbstracts must be submitted through the conference
SYMPOSIUM DETAILS We would like to invite you
to attend and contribute to the ESEB-sponsored symposium “Mechanisms of Trade-offs”, to take place at
the submission process. Talks in the symposium will
We would like to draw your attention to our Landscape Genetics symposium at IALE in Manchester, UK,
ing 2013 / Symposium Population Genomics will take ***EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXplace from March 13 - 15, 2013 at
student progress report meeting and symposium Population Genomics.
We encourage anyone interested to attend the symposium. Please write a short mail to Ingrid Kroiss
main symposium there will also be an open session for
University in Bronx, New York City, Sunday, July 7, Early registration saves up to 75% off regular registra2013 7:00 AM - Saturday, July 13, 2013 12:00 PM. The tion costs, and is very affordable, with combined regscientific program will consist of symposia, contributed istration (Training Day + main meeting) starting at ~
Australia, are the co-organizers of a full-day symposium/workshop at the 12th Pacific Science Association
This full day session will include a half-day symposium of contributed presentations on DNA barcoding
informatics. The DNA barcoding symposium will contribute toward development of a regional strategy for
Symposia include: - EVOLUTIONARY APPLICATIONS FOR BIOSYSTEMS AND AGRICULTURE:
a dedicated “PhD symposium” for off topic abstracts,
On behalf of the organizing committee of the 2sd International Symposium on genus Rupicapra, it will be
staff our research is diverse and in the Research Assesshttp://www.rupicaprasymposium.wnature.org/ment Exercise 2008, 90% of our research was judged
Australasia and around the world. Each day of the conference will include a plenary lecture by an eminent invited speaker, followed by several concurrent symposia.
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ eigh@nd.edu
An Arthropod Genomics Symposium Travel Grant is
Genomics Symposium held at the University of Notre
7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium
The grant will cover: (1) registration to the symposium - $375 for postdocs, $175 for graduate students,
interested in attending the symposium, including how
The 7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium and
VectorBase Workshop will be held from June 12 - June The 2013 Symposium is sponsored by the University of
The Arthropod Genomics Symposium will begin Thursday evening, June 13, 2013, and conclude late afternoon
To register for the Arthropod Genomics Symposium or
Symposium and National Science Meeting. 4th-6th
13 will comprise an international symposium celebrating 30 years of Thornhill & Alcock’s landmark publication on the evolution of insect mating systems, with plenary talks from 15 leading researchers from the around
For further information please email: ento13@standrews.ac.uk International Symposium Convenors:
Information about the symposium can be found here
Registration for the course and symposium on social
dents, postdoctoral fellows, academic and company reThis is a symposium and course announcement. Please searchers interested in social effects in plant, natural or
Symposium: Genetics of social life: Agriculture meets Outline:
known as associative effects, social effects or competia symposium on social genetic effects.
Symposium and Course Organisation:
Cell Symposium: Evolution of Modern Humans - From
Sitges, Spain www. cell-symposia-humanevolution.com
Our Cell Symposium Evolution of Modern Humans
Keystone Symposia’s 2014 Conference on 3 Mechanisms
Symposia1 s meeting on 3 Mechanisms and Consefor Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig
www.keystonesymposia.org/14A7 Nicole Gerardo Assistant Professor Emory University Department of Biology
poster contributions to the following seven symposia,
symposium.
Symposium, 18th March 2014, Cambridge, U.K.,
Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium 2014
The Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium
your affiliation to cegsymposium@gmail.com by 14th will continue the tradition of bringing together both
pathogen evolution and speciation. The symposium focus on topics at the interface of behavior, neurobiwill consist of around ten 15-minute talks as well as ology, genetics, molecular biology, and evolution and
Join us at the 2014 Genes and Behavior Gordon Con- Reminder and Deadline extension - Symposium on Epiference. We are meeting at Hotel Galvez, Gavelston genetics in Ecology and Evolution
We have organised a symposium with a number of plenary talks and plenty of room for discussion. We corhttp://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/dially invite the community to join in on
We are pleased to announce the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium - 2014, Turkey (EEBST 2014). This will be the first international symposium in
The symposium will be conducted in English.
oral presentations will be accepted. The Symposium
Cell Symposium: Evolution of Modern Humans - From
420 Euro for PhD students 600 Euro for other partici- Sitges, Spain www. cell-symposia-humanevolution.com
behaviour is available here: http://www.cell.com/Our Cell Symposium ’Evolution of Modern Humans - trends/ecology-evolution/archive and select the August
A symposium on the “Evolution of mating systems”
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
The 2014 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientific committee includes:
pate in an exciting international symposium about the
effects of human activities on ecological and evolutionary processes around the world. The symposium events
The NNB was established during a symposium at resumenes.php
For full conference schedule, including pre- and postconference courses, ReGeneC alumni round table, symposia/fora, and financial aid, see:
speakers in related fields to this symposium (Bruno
at postgraduate symposia held at the University. The
International Symposium ’Ecology & Evolution of MaSite: Premises of Sabadell of the Institut Catalá de Pa- rine Parasites and Diseases’ at the NIOZ Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research on Texel in the Netherleontologia Miquel Crusafont (Bercelona, Spain).
and learn how to use it alone or in combination with in marine ecosystems. This symposium intends to fill
extended to other types of markers and organisms. Ba- We are delighted to announce that the following insic use of the R statistical package and command-line vited speakers have confirmed to join the symposium:
and is co-organized by Transmitting Science and the Themes of the symposium:
the International Symposium ’Ecology & Evolution of
2013, for the symposium entitled:
of this symposium are to unify researchers from different fields, as well as provide opportunities to present
August 2013)* is now open, and we are inviting submissions of contributed talks and posters to a symposium
Simone Sommer http://www.izw-berlin.de/will be a symposium on:
The aim of the symposium is to provide a showcase for act on an ecologically relevant time scale. Here, we
evolutionary research in China and to foster communication and collaboration between Chinese and Eu- The symposium spans a large range of fields and will be
associated with the symposium. To register and of- servation measures. (3) Next generation sequencing:
The symposium will lead to a special issue in Evo-
If you have any question regarding this symposium
symposium “Linking genome evolution at different time
June, 2012; https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia).
Symposium sum-
This symposium will provide exciting discussions and
of phenotypic diversity. The aim of this symposium is
We are happy to announce the symposium:
in numerous marine and terrestrial animals. Our symposium focuses on current advances in this field, taking
Symposium organisers: 1. Professor Tamas Szekely, how to conceptualize, model, and quantify biological
Where and when: Hameau de l’Etoile (http://We call for mini-symposia (3 or 6 talks), poster sessions
CoevolutionSociety Symposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
CoevolutionSociety Symposium
vironmental unpredictability - Ecophysiology of tem3. A “Molecular coevolution” symposium will be or- perate/arctic and tropical hibernation: environmental
scientists at the Undergraduate Research Symposium.
Research Symposium will be held Friday, August 16 at
selective processes involved. Our symposium focuses
are happy to announce the symposium:
We are happy to announce the symposium:
Description: Host’-parasite coevolution often leads to Details of the symposium are below, and we will be acfast evolutionary changes. It thus represents an ideal cepting abstract submissions until the 28th February
The field on polymorphism research is currently pro- we are pleased to announce the symposium “EVOLUgressing rapidly because of advances in genomic tech- TIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF EPIGENETIC VARInologies, especially high-throughput DNA sequencing. ATION”. To register and submit your abstract for
We have now become capable of scanning large parts of this symposium, please follow the instructions on the
tation. This symposium presents the current status of
This symposium seeks to provide a platform for scientists that are working towards the integration of ecology and genomics in the study of colour polymorphic
Dr. Koen Verhoeven Netherlands Institute of Ecol- symposium is to highlight diverse examples of the emogy (NIOO-KNAW) Dept. Terrestrial Ecology tel: pirical study of fitness landscapes using microbial ex+31 (0)317 473624 email: k.verhoeven@nioo.knaw.nl perimental evolution and their contribution to quantiweb: www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/kverhoeven “Verho- tative models of adaptation.
symposia addressing the genomic basis of experimental evolution. The first emphasizes detecting candidate
This symposium will focus on the application of whole
to announce a symposium on “Genomic Islands: their
role in adaptation and speciation”. Details of the symposium are below, and we will be accepting abstract
symposium will explore the interactions of diversifying selection and homogenizing gene flow to identify
trends in genomic evolution which accompany adaptation and ecological speciation. The symposium will
We are particularly keen to cover the whole of this process within the symposium, and so want to highlight
that the symposium doesn’t just focus on speciation,
To register and submit your abstract for this symposium, please follow the instructions on the congress
in mind, this symposium will bring together theoretical
To register and submit your abstract for this symposium, please follow the instructions on the congress
until the 28 of February 2013, for the symposium:
until the 28 of February 2013, for the symposium *Actively learning evolution: methods and resources.*
is doing science.The symposium “*Actively learning
this symposium, please follow the instructions on the
We are pleased to invite you to the symposium “*MOLECULAR EVOLUTIONARY INNOVATIONS*” that will be held at the XIV congress of the
19-24 August 2013, we are pleased to announce a symposium on * MULTIGENE FAMILY EVOLUTION IN
* * *Symposium summary:*
In this symposium we will address the evolution of these profile.php?jfk31)
this symposium we aim at bringing together researchers
of phenotypic diversity. The aim of this symposium is
symposium on “Unifying paleobiological and comparative perspectives on character evolution” for the 14th
far from mature. This symposium gathers researchers
Link: https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia Deadline
Talks will be assigned time slots of 15 minutes and selected based on relevance for the symposium. Sincerely,
that we will be accepting abstract submissions until February 28th 2013, for the symposium “PHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY: MECHANISMS, ECOLOGY,
28 of February 2013,for the symposium entitled:
in the study of ecological processes. With this proINVITED SPEAKERS: * Jacintha Ellers (Vrije Uniposed symposium, our goal is to promote the integraversiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands) * Fred Nijhout
been ignored. With this proposed symposium, we hope
and fitness in natural populations. The symposium welOrganizer: Teppo Hiltunen, University of Helsinki
August 2013)* is now open, and we are inviting submissions of contributed talks and posters to a symposium
*DEAD LINE for submission is February 28th, 29 topical symposia and 4 wide scope sessions. The
this symposium is to provide a diverse overview of the All relevant information can be found online.
this symposium to recent evolutionary change (specif- Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa Pically from from the end of Pleistocene - 10,000 years 1749-016 Lisboa Portugal
ESEB Symposium on ’Early germ-soma segregation’
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium “Evolutionary consequences of an early germ-soma segregation”, to take
occasion of these new discoveries, this symposium will
selection in a multicellular individual. This symposium
make it timely to reevaluate this hypothesis. This symposium explores the evolutionary stability of multicellularity in organisms with and without an early germline sequestration, to discuss the relative importance of
28 of February 2013,for the symposium entitled:
The symposium will highlight recent progress in this
of the functional/organismal phenotype. In this symposium we aim to bridge these views by linking our current knowledge of the molecular and physiological pathways with what has been learned about quantitative
their evolutionary consequences will require an integrative approach, and it is the major aim of our symposium
https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia
https://www.ESEB2013.com/symposia >
ESEB Symposium on Mechanisms of TRADE-OFFs
abstract submission for this symposium is now open at:
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizers and will be selected for either oral or poster presentation in late February. When submitting your abstract please state your preference (talk, poster) during
the submission process. Talks in the symposium will
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium “Mechanisms of We are looking forward to seeing you in Lisbon!
We call for mini-symposia (3 or 6 talks), poster sessions
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
in an exciting international symposium on the conceptual and methodological integration of paleontological
and phylogenetic approaches to the study of macroevolution. The symposium events will take place from 1517 March 2013, in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
2013 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing
For further details of the Royal Entomological Society’s International Symposium “Thirty Years of
the co-organizers of a full-day symposium/workshop
Information on the symposium/workshop and the
ESF-EMBO Symposium: Integrated Insect Immunolhow preventative, curative and management therapies
dress the following topics and symposia:Morphology,
Keystone Symposia Mechanisms and Consequences of Dr Nadine Taylor Research Fellow School of Biosciences
www.keystonesymposia.org/14A7 Organizers: Bruno
This symposium will bring together researchers
six mini-symposia encompassing the major topics and
The six symposia are: 1) Origins and mechanisms; 2)
across three symposia:
Species, the 2013 Symposium of the American Genetic
Association. July 20-22 at Cornell University in beauEarly bird registration is open for the 2013 Symposium
ing the symposium, 23-24 July, will be the workshop, poster title with registration. The Carl Becker House
website, http://www.theaga.org/ and click on the symposium logo. Or check out our Facebook page, https://www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation
Symposium Speakers:
For details and registration, please visit the AGA website, http://www.theaga.org/ and click on the symposium logo. Or check out our Facebook page, https://www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation Immediately following the symposium, 23-24 July, will be
Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University Andy Clark, Immediately following the symposium, 23-24 July, will
posium logo. Or check out our Facebook page, https:/Symposium Speakers:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer- Symposium Speakers:
the 2013 Symposium of the American Genetic Associ- Due to a large number of “I was about to submit” mesation, to be held July 20-22 at Cornell University in sages, the deadline for abstracts has been extended to
Australia, are the co-organizers of a full-day symposium/workshop at the 12th Pacific Science Association
and a half-day instructional workshop on biodiversity great success (www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/). Volvocine alinformatics. The DNA barcoding symposium will con- gae have become an important model system for the
British Ecological Society Centenary Symposium on
http://besevolutionsymposium.eventbrite.co.uk
The Third Annual Spring Symposium Hosted by Marine Lab, College of Charleston and Medical UniverNMNH’s Frontiers in Phylogenetics Program is ap- sity of South Carolina
Day 1 (Monday May 20) - Symposium Day 2 (Tuesday from very small samples; Ostracoda Todd Oakley UniMay 21) - Discussion Topics (schedule below)
DAY 1 - Symposium 9:30-9:35 Opening Remarks and 9:30 - 10:00 informatics workflow for phyloLogistics Michael Braun, Frontiers in Phylogenetics transcriptomics; insects Adam Bazinet University
to a general symposium. Registration and Abstract
For more information, visit the website at: http://globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropod-genomicssymposium/ “Eck Institute for Global Health - ( eigh
Arthropod Genomics Symposium and VectorBase
Symposium: Genetics of social life: Agriculture meets
a symposium on social genetic effects.
Information about the symposium can be found here
Symposium and Course Organisation:
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 SymposiumPopEcol . . 18
Call for Symposium proposals:
We are seeking proposals for three symposia, one each
Each symposium will run from 1 PM until 5:30 PM with
Symposium proposals can suggest alternate structures
To suggest a symposium:
Please send to the email address: amsocnaturalists@gmail.com with subject header “Symposium Proposal”
1) 1) a symposium title
six mini-symposia encompassing the major topics and
The six symposia are: 1) Origins and mechanisms; 2)
3) 3) a statement describing the topic of the symposium, how it is timely and novel, and how it fits into
In̄aki Ruiz-Trillo, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPFNote: AAt present, ASN does not have funds to support CSIC) Ricard V. Solé, Institut de Biologia Evolutravel or registration costs for symposium speakers.
The deadline for symposium proposals is March 30 Brunswick
the homologous segments needed to set up a framehttp://www.embo-embl-symposia.org/symposia/2013/EES13-01/ Regards, Detlef Weigel (Max Planck work for comparative genome analysis and to reconInstitute for Developmental Biology) Diethard Tautz struct the record of genetic changes leading to present(Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology)
of this symposium are to unify researchers from different fields, as well as provide opportunities to present
for the symposium entitled:
the symposium, ’Evolutionary Biology in China’ at
This symposium is intended to showcase the great work
Pleuni Pennings (Stanford), are organizing a symposium, “The Evolution and Genetics of Drug Resistance,” at the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) meeting this August. The ESEB meeting is
proud that this year there will be a symposium dedicated to this theme at ESEB. We have two great invited speakers, Cally Roper and Craig MacLean. Dr.
contributed talks and posters to a symposium addressing advances in Evolutionary conservation.
symposium depends in part on the number of abstracts
Jacob Höglund http://www.ebc.uu.se/our symposium.
Symposium: The Evolution and Genetics of Drug Re- stems from the misconception that evolution does not
ganisms is one of the most important challenges facing The symposium spans a large range of fields and will be
strategies. At the same time, such studies help further role of phenotypic plasticity etc) (2) Evolutionary conour general understanding of evolutionary biology. Our straints on small population sizes and impacts of consymposium provides a venue to discuss experimental servation measures. (3) Next generation sequencing:
The symposium will lead to a special issue in Evolutionary Applications http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1111/%28ISSN%291752-4571 which should
symposium is not solely on speciation, but also the geWe are glad to invite you to submit abstracts for talks nomic architecture of local adaptation, we are also keen
and posters to the symposium on Evolutionary Demog- to maintain a balance of theoretical and empirical conraphy, which will be held at the 14th Congress of the tributions.
to announce a symposium on “Genomic Islands: their
Symposium summary: submissions until the 28th February 2013.
This symposium aims to stimulate cross disciplinary
Medicine) http://www.lshtm.ac.uk/aboutus/people/- symposium will explore the interactions of diversifysear.rebecca Tim Coulson (University of Oxford) ing selection and homogenizing gene flow to identify
tation and ecological speciation. The symposium will
Best wishes from the organizers of the symposium,
This symposium is co-organized by the Max Planck In- you in Lisbon!
ESEB Symposium on “Early germ-soma segregation”
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium “Evolutionary consequences of an early germ-soma segregation”, to take
occasion of these new discoveries, this symposium will
selection in a multicellular individual. This symposium
Pedro Vale, Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evoluuntil the*28 of February 2013*, for the symposium:
in mind, this symposium will bring together theoretical
29 topical symposia and 4 wide scope sessions.
until the 28 of February 2013, for the symposium *Actively learning evolution: methods and resources.*
is doing science.The symposium “*Actively learning
this symposium, please follow the instructions on the
this symposium we aim at bringing together researchers
To register and submit your abstract for this symposium, please follow the instructions on the congress
approaching for abstract submission to the symposium on * MULTIGENE FAMILY EVOLUTION IN
We are pleased to invite you to the symposium *“MOLECULAR EVOLUTIONARY INNOVATIONS” *that will be held at the XIV congress of the
*Symposium summary:* Evolutionary innovations, in(http://www.immunology.cam.ac.uk/directory/cluding evolution of new functions, bear the hallmarks
Description: Multigene families, like the MHC, encode and long-term fates in genomes. In this symposium
of phenotypic diversity. The aim of this symposium is
We will be accepting abstract submissions until February 28th 2013 (Thursday), for the symposium “PHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY: MECHANISMS, ECOLOGY, AND EVOLUTION”
and fitness in natural populations. This symposium
SymposiumPopEcol
We are glad to invite you to participate to the symposium
www.eseb2013.com/talks Symposium presentation:
“Population Ecology” symposium to be held at the14th
of species diversification, and the symposium goal is to Description: This symposium will include evolutionary perspectives on population ecology themes such as
This symposium is part of the European Science Foun- meta-populations. The symposium will focus on thedation’s Research Networking Programme Frontiers oretical and empirical developments in dispersal and
Abstract Deadline for ESEB Symposium on Mechanisms of Trade-Offs
have been drawn from molecular studies without sufficient consideration of the functional/organismal phenotype. In this symposium we aim to bridge these
of our symposium to help foster such an integration.
The deadline for abstract submission for the 2013 ESEB https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia
abstract submission for this symposium is now open at:
our symposium on the MECHANISMS OF TRADE- 28 February 2013.
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizAbstracts must be submitted through the conference ers and will be selected for either oral or poster prewebsite at: https://www.eseb2013.com/ Looking for- sentation in late February. When submitting your abward to seeing you in Lisbon!
the submission process. Talks in the symposium will
SYMPOSIUM DETAILS We would like to invite you
May 27-29th, 2013 | Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, We call for mini-symposia (3 or 6 talks), poster sessions
Manchester Molecular and Genome Evolution Symposium will take place on Friday 17th May 2013. The
remit of the symposium is broad and will include all
The symposium will be a day-long event consisting of
We encourage anyone interested to attend the symposium and, if they wish, to submit an abstract. We are
reception following the symposium.
the symposium online at the URL: http://- with regard to human and cancer genomics, genetic distinyurl.com/ManMage2013. If you have any ques- eases and virus epidemics. General concepts, models,
tions about the symposium please contact myself methods and algorithms will also be presented and dis(casey.bergman[at]manchester.ac.uk) or Lauren Sumcussed, just as during the previous conference editions.
Gil McVean (University of Oxford, UK). Dissecting the We are happy to announce that the FOR 1078 Meeting 2013 / Symposium Population Genomics will take
student progress report meeting and symposium Population Genomics.
We encourage anyone interested to attend the symposium. Please write a short mail to Ingrid Kroiss Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road, Miami, FL 33158
scientific program will consist of symposia, contributed
will follow the symposium.
Scientist Symposium, to be held Saturday, March 16,
7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium
will address cutting-edge approaches for revealing large- The 7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium and
The Arthropod Genomics Symposium will begin Thurs-
To register for the Arthropod Genomics Symposium or
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ eigh@nd.edu
Genetics of Adaptation Symposium Saturday 6 April
This one-day symposium will include research on both
The Symposium is free of charge, but registration is re- STUDENT PARTICIPATION IS SUPPORTED BY
http://www.mckaylab.colostate.edu/symposium.html
Committee to present their talks in the Mayr symposium during the meeting. All applicants will be notified
inclusion in the Mayr Award symposium.
The Mayr symposium will be held at a single venue as
This is a symposium and course announcement, please Information about program and registration for both
forward this email to colleagues that might be inter- the symposium and course will soon be available on
Symposium
Symposium: Genetics of social life: Agriculture meets (Esther.Ellen@wur.nl)
a symposium on social genetic effects.
across three symposia:
Registration is open for the 2013 Symposium of the
Early bird registration is open for the 2013 Symposium
the symposium logo.
Immediately following the symposium,
Symposium Speakers:
Evolution (MaGE) Symposium is fast approaching: Friother conference or scientific journal.
proceedings, which will be published in BMC BioinforThis annual symposium is an informal and friendly
transitions of the Animal Kingdom with 21st century SYMPOSIUM
of titles from other more senior researchers in Manch- A symposium of the NHM Biodiversity Initiative, in
/www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/Douda Bensasson <douda.bensasson@manchester.ac.uk>research-initiatives/tropical-biodiversitysymposium/index.html
The Symposium The high diversity of tropical ecosystems remains poorly known and stands to benefit
The symposium will gather participants from the fields
ing tropical biodiversity. The symposium will also host
For enquiries, please send an email to the symposium organizer, Dr Alfried P. Vogler, Department
Symposium hosted by Frontiers in Phylogenetics at Admission is free but registration is required.
Symposium sponsored by the Tropical Conservation
This workshop will provide an overview of recent theoSee the TCBES Research Symposium Registration retical and methodological developments for modeling
patterns incorporating density dependence, heterogene- To register for the Arthropod Genomics Symposium or
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropod- Ecophylogenetics, and theories such as the neutral genomics-symposium/
7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium:
Ento ’13 International Symposium and Annual National Science Meeting
both the International Symposium and the National
The International Symposium will celebrate 30 years
Symposium will take the form of invited plenary sessions on the mornings of the 4th, 5th and 6th September.
Bird Registration Deadline Friday, April 19, 2013: Sub- Symposium speakers include: Göran Arnqvist (Uppsala), Boris Baer (Western Australia), Bruno Buzatto
The 7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium and Hunt (Exeter), Hanna Kokko (ANU), Trish Moore
The Arthropod Genomics Symposium will begin Thurs-
Special symposium at the annual meeting of the Society for Experimental Biology July 3-6, 2013 in Valencia,
Valencia, Spain, we will be hosting a symposium on
SSB StudentSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
journals, *Molecular Biology and Evolution*, and should not form a symposium or other part of a larger
the final workshop/symposium program and a short
(~2 page) summary of the workshop/symposium highSMBE’s first satellite meeting sponsored under this
satellite symposia: “Eukaryotic Metagenomics” ( *Instructions for proposals to organize an SMBE Satellite Meeting*
budget including expected number of participants, meeting format is preferable to a symposium at the
Symposium, “The Evolution of Gene Regulatory Networks”, which will take place at the Annual Evolution 2013 Meeting on June 21-25, 2013, at the
speakers for this symposium will soon be confirmed
SSB StudentSymposium
4. At the closing of early registration, a subset of applicants will be selected by the SSB Awards Committee to present their talks in the Mayr Symposium during the meeting. Based on submitted abstracts, the
inclusion in the symposium.
The symposium will be held at a single venue as a
Student Symposium sponsored by the Society of Sys- continuous session. Talks will be judged on creativity, depth and excellence of research, and on quality of
sponsors a symposium with invited student speakers at results of a major body of work.
the symposium who meet the criteria below to apply.
Please see the SSB website (http://systbio.org/?q=http://systbio.org/?q=node/6). Previous Mayr award node/10) for additional information or updates on participating in the symposium. Questions via email may
Application Procedure to participate in the symposium:
1. To be considered as a participant in the symposium, 2013
Brady, bradys@si.edu, with symposium application± in “Brady, Sean” <BRADYS@si.edu>
This workshop immediately follows the 2013 AGA speciation symposium
Travel grants are available, sponsored by the American Genetics Association. This workshop immediately follows the 2013 AGA speciation symposium (get
PuertoRico SMBE2014 Jun8-12 CallForSymposiaReminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Symposium on Epigenetics in Ecology and Evolution
Travel grant to attend the Symposium on “Epigenetics
for one PhD student to attend the Symposium on “Epigenetics in Ecology and Evolution” organized by the
We have organised a symposium with a number of ple- December 3-4, 2013 in Gif-sur-Yvette (close to Paris,
Reminder and Deadline extension - Symposium on Epigenetics in Ecology and Evolution
11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium November 1-3, 2013 Marriott Country Club Plaza, Kansas
City, MO Symposium website: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013 The 11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium will be held November 1-3, 2013 at the Marriott
symposium and we encourage you to attend!
poster abstract submission, registration and hotel reservations, please visit our symposium website: ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013.
We have organised a symposium with a number of ple-
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
The 2013 Ecological Genomics Symposium speakers
11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium NovemRob Knight, University of Colorado The Earth Micro- ber 1-3, 2013 Marriott Country Club Plaza, Kansas
City, MO Symposium website: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/Marcus Kronforst, University of Chicago Population ge- symp2013 The 11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symnomics and ecological speciation in Heliconius butter- posium will be held November 1-3, 2013 at the Marriott
symposium and we encourage you to attend!
poster abstract submission, registration and hotel reserJeffrey Ross-Ibarra, University of California Davis Evovations, please visit our symposium website: ecolutionary genetics of highland adaptation in maize and
FOR POSTER ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: WednesFUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas day, October 23, 2013 at 11:59 p.m. CDT.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
66506-4901 www.ecogen.ksu.edu Ecological Genomics Symposium speakers are:
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas to further develop the application of network models
Each successful symposium will be funded with
Sponsored symposia are encouraged. However, please
CallForSymposiaReminder
This is a reminder that the *Call for Symposia* for the
The NNB was established during a symposium at
students will present their results orally in an end-ofcourse symposium. The course costs $1500 which covers all food and accommodation, however flights (both
taken to understand the role of parasitism and disease in a peer reviewed journal. This workshop will be parin marine ecosystems. This symposium intends to fill ticularly useful for evolutionary biologists particularly
We are delighted to announce that the following in- She has successfully worked with ESL lab personnel (including undergraduates) to prepare and publish numervited speakers have confirmed to join the symposium:
Themes of the symposium:
Please find a pdf flyer of the symposium attached
to this E-mail which you are kindly asked to distribute to others who might interested in the symposium. For further information and registration got
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . .9
versity of Western Ontario, Canada Michael Whitlock, *International Symposium of Plant Diversity and Con-
This symposium aims at providing an opportunity
The symposium working language is English.
24-25th September: Post-symposium excursion
*I. **International Symposium of Plant Diversity and
The NNB was established during a symposium at the opportunity to present their work, and all particithe BioSystematics conference in Berlin in February pants to discuss the emerging trends.
The symposium will feature 12 invited lectures, poster
More information about the symposium can be found
You are invited to attend a symposium entitled “Prin- would like to present a research poster on biodiversity
cipals in Population Genetics: A coalescence of com- in the southeastern US or to attend the symposium,
munity to celebrate Andy Clark.” This symposium please register at http://www.ecu.edu/cs-cas/biology/will be held July 10-12, 2014 at Cornell University ncbiodiversity/upload/symposium-registration.docx
you to attend and participate in a symposium entitled
Sincerely, Center for Biodiversity Symposium Committee - Marcelo Ardón, David Chalcraft (Committee
Genomics Symposium, Kansas City, 11/1-3/2013
11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium November 1-3, 2013 Marriott Country Club Plaza, Kansas
City, MO Symposium website: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013 The 11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium will be held November 1-3, 2013 at the Marriott
symposium and we encourage you to attend!
poster abstract submission, registration and hotel reservations, please visit our symposium website: eco- ADDITIONAL INFORMATION will be posted on our
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013. You may also register FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
CallSymposia
Venue: Flett Lecture Theatre, Natural History Mu- accepting proposals for symposium topics for the 2014
25th 2013. The subject line should read: Symposium
P The final decision on the selection of symposia, invited and contributed talks will be made jointly by the
Call for Symposia will *close on Friday October 25th
Successful Symposium *applications will be confirmed
*CALL FOR SYMPOSIA V one page maximum* 2014
ceived. Symposium submissions from local scientists in
Symposium
*Subject Line:* SMBE 2014* *Symposium Submission
*Symposium Title*:
Each successful symposium will be funded with $1,500
Please indicate why this particular symposium is timely meeting. If you have any queries about this please email
to a broad range of researchers in the fields of genome Sponsored symposia are encouraged, however, please
Margaret Andreucetti (margaret.andreucetti@mci*Symposium Overview:*
P Each symposium will consist of a maximum of 2 in- and to enquire about the industry prospectus.
one, additional invited speaker per symposium (Based
on symposium title), at no cost to the symposium.
*Symposium Summary:* (15 lines maximum):
P The symposium organizers will be responsible for selecting at least one invited speaker for their symposium
P The symposium organizers will select the contributed
Applications for symposium conveners open for
conference will be organized into 12 symposia, of which
symposia are planned to be very general and to inform
conveners of the 8 afternoon symposia. Each symposium will consist of a 40 minute slot for a keynote
tansleymedal New Phytologist Symposia 2013-2014 the subgenera related to each other? What is the bio32nd NPS: Plant interactions with other organ- geographic history and potential origin of the genus?
CAM plants http://www.newphytologist.org/symposia
Early announcement for a Symposium on Size
ment of ancillary proposals, symposia, and other outgenetics, including a close collaboration with Malariareach efforts; mentor graduate and undergraduate stu- GEN consortium. The aim of the research is to use
Raleigh ASN Jun20-24 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
and information about three afternoon symposia and
idence that speciation with gene flow must be important in generating insect diversity. And indeed, contemThe following symposium at the 2013 Entomol- porary ecological genetic studies are revealing extraorogy meeting in Austin, Texas <x-apple-data- dinary patterns of diversity in insect form and funcdetectors://0>, may be of interest to evolutionary tion that favor the Hutchinsonian (and Bush-ian) world
Symposium at the annual meeting of the Entomological
Society of America (November 10-13, 2013 <x-appledata-detectors://1> in Austin, Texas). This symposium celebrates the work and continuing legacy of Dr.
be in attendance and will close the symposium with
some words of reflection. A full description of symposium themes and a list of speakers is appended below. The Entomology meetings also offer myriad other
exciting Evolution-related symposia and activities this
year so plan to come for the symposium (Nov 10; 16pm) and stay for the meeting! (program: http://www.entsoc.org/entomology2013)
This symposium celebrates the legacy of Guy Bush and
Notre Dame; ghood@nd.edu), symposium organizers.
Symposium: The cell’s view of animal body plan
evolution Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology (SICB) Annual Meeting January 37, 2014 Austin, TX http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2014/symposia/cellevo.php Abstract submission deadline: August 26 2013 Registration deadline: November
This symposium will bring together researchers who
annual SICB meeting makes it an ideal venue to consider such an integrative topic. We hope that this symposium will stimulate a synthesis that can inform new
symposium covers topics including cytoskeletal dynamics underlying patterning and morphogenesis of tissues,
the symposium
A poster session will follow this day long symposium. A
Make sure to select our symposium from the pull
symposium to help defray the cost of attending the The transition to multicellular life represents one of the
six mini-symposia encompassing the major topics and
The six symposia are: 1) Origins and mechanisms; 2)
invited speakers, symposiums, oral presentations, and
Subject: Ecological Genomics Symposium, Kansas into the pond for clues to multicellularity
11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium Novem- and regulatory basis of adaptation in stressful environber 1-3, 2013 Marriott Country Club Plaza, Kansas ments
City, MO Symposium website: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013 The 11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium will be held November 1-3, 2013 at the Marriott
symposium and we encourage you to attend!
tel reservations, please visit our symposium webwebsite,www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013, as details are
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
Despite this being the German Phylogenetic Symposium, all talks will be held in English.
Attendance at the symposium is free, but preregistration is strongly encouraged.
in attending the symposium.
More information about the symposium, including how
netic Symposium will take place at the Carl von Ossietzky University in Oldenburg, Germany under the theme Phone: +49 441 798 3965 Fax: +49 441 798
timetrees in evolutionary biology”. The symposium http://www.molekularesystematik.uni-oldenburg.de/
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative
(4) a justification for the symposium explaining why
the topic and speakers are appropriate for a Societythe deadline for sending your registration to 4th An- sponsored symposium (up to one page); and (5) a statenual Meeting of the European PhD Network in Insect ment that all potential speakers have agreed to particScience± has now expired. However, since the maxi- ipate.
would recommend you to register as soon as possible Symposium Proposal. Proposals that include women,
lunch of sunday 22nd of September. Please consider and on it being different from recent symposia sponthat the location of the conference is about 3 hours sored by the Society. All applicants will be notified of
Monica Geber ASN Symposium Committee DepartLooking forward of meeting you in Paluzza,
CallSymposia
Call for Symposium at 2014 Annual Meeting
proposals for a sponsored half-day symposium to be
held in conjunction with the meeting. Symposium top-
A full list of symposia are at available at http://focus and goals of the SEPEEG conference.
PhylogeneticsSymposium Recordings available . . . . . 66
SSB SymposiaProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
PhylogeneticsSymposium
Recordings from the Third Annual Spring Symposium,
Phylogenetics 3rd Annual Spring Symposium Baird
Symposium 9:45-10:30 My Students Could Do My Thesis in Five Minutes; How to Cope with the Next Generation Rob DeSalle, Sackler Institute of Comparative The reference I’m hoping someone out there has a .pdf
SSB SymposiaProposals
for symposia at the 2014 Evolution meeting, to be held
and importance of the proposed Symposium. Funds to
Base calling, mapping and filtering. SNP calling and *Keynote speakers for the symposium:*
day symposium. It is intended for PhD students and or professionals in neotropical conservation. The numpostdocs with little or no experience in landscape ge- ber of participants is limited to 15.
symposium at Asilomar, CA (USA) 13-15 Aug 2014
based on a symposium at Asilomar, California in 1964
meeting and book, we are pleased to announce a symposium at Asilomar from August 13-15, 2014. The sym-
Special Issue of Molecular Ecology in 2015. The symposium proceedings (including the popular questionanswer transcripts of the original) will also be published
Symposia) will be hosting a conference and series of
The Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium *Peter Kennedy*, University of Minnesota
Chicago Plant Science Symposium 2014April 19 at the
The annual Chicago Plant Science Symposium highlights cutting edge research in plant biology, evolution,
spring we will host the fourth annual symposium with
a diverse set of speakers who are investigating many dif- This symposium will be held July 10-12, 2014 at Cornell
34th New Phytologist Symposium.
www.newphytologist.org/symposiums/view/5 Travel
ling bioenergy and environmental challenges pertaining by Martin Embley. Two symposia then follow.
for future research. The symposium will take place over Mary University of London. Speakers paying tribfour days at the Granlibakken Resort and Conference ute to Bland’s contribution to protistan biodiversity,
The second symposium examines the evolution and
- Wednesday 26th March 2014: Deadline for securing time window allotted to each symposium will be decided by the Scientific Committee, depending on the
- Wednesday 9th April 2014: Registration for the meet- number and quality of submissions. Some symposia
symposium, but ESEB will pay the registration fee for
www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposiuminformation.
SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS
Submissions for symposium proposals are now inLisbon FishSexDetermination
website, currently at: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/ Information about the symposia can be
found at: www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium*First Announcement***
For symposium submission, please go to: http:/- *International Conference on***
/www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/wpgforms/symposium/ You will be asked to provide:
meeting. 2. The proposed symposium title. 3. A summary of max 200 words explaining why you think this
names of one or two invited speakers (please check beforehand whether these people are available). Organizers cannot invite themselves to their own symposium.
in November 2014, with a deadline of January 15, 2015. This international meeting will feature three outstandAt this time, symposium organizers must be prepared ing speakers in the field: /Manfred Schartl/, University
to screen submissions for their symposium (for which of Würzburg, Germany; /Francesc Piferrer/, Institut
Symposia typically start with one or two invited speak- Oliveira/, ISPA, Portugal. Poster sessions and oral preers (40 min each, including discussion) and are followed sentations are also on the schedule.
Symposia proposals on overlapping subjects may be requested to fuse.
San Juan. The meeting will feature 39 concurrent symposia on the variety of topics in Molecular Biology and Taras Oleksyk <oleksyk@gmail.com>
the meeting. We will also have dedicated posters ses- deadline to apply for the Phylogenomics Symposium
sions each evening and we are working to ensure that and Software School < http://www.cs.utexas.edu/both you and the poster presenters are given ample time %7Etandy/symposium-2014.html > * April 1: deadline
decisions will be announced by Monday, April 21st. Ap- sign-up ends < http://evolution2014.org/wpgforms/plications are welcomed from all undergraduates, and student-volunteers-2/ > * April 1: deadline to apthe admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of stu- ply for the Phylogenomics Symposium and Softdents.
ware School < http://www.cs.utexas.edu/%7Etandy/An overview of the program and student eligibility, and symposium-2014.html > * April 1: deadline to sign up
session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day
2014 American Genetic Association Presidential Symposium -
to meet people working at all levels of biological orgasession Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
www.dgsgenetika.org.rs/v-congress.php Information on and will host another D. suzukii symposia focused on
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep GeNeurobiology, Ethology, chemical ecology
Symposium website:
meeting.html The University of Arizona IGERT Pro*The meeting*: Expected participants are not only gram in Comparative Genomics is sponsoring an interthose working in the agriculture/pest management national meeting on Deep Genomics. The symposium’s
POSTER SESSION The symposium will feature a
Deep Genomics. The symposium’s theme this year
POSTER SESSION The symposium will feature
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep Genomics on April 3-5, 2014 in Tucson, Arizona.
Symposium
of submitted posters. Details about the afternoon sessions can be found here: http://nymphalidae.utu.fi/icbb2014/symposia.html . We look forward to your abstracts and above all to seeing you here in Turku in
of their butterfly hosts. This symposium will bring together an exciting mix of researchers to examine some
We are now accepting abstracts for talk or poster presentation for the 3 Butterflies as hosts2 symposium.
The whole conference promises additional exciting symposia including sessions on various aspects of butterfly Biology, Conservation and Genetics, with plenary
For the conference draft programme see: http://nymphalidae.utu.fi/icbb2014/symposia.html Deadhttp://- line for abstract submission is the 1st May 2014.
email the symposium convener Anne Duplouy at
Genomics Symposium.
The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
conference registration and abstract submission is below. Two speakers for each session of the symposium
The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consortium, vector biology, social insects, microbiomes, and
All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
To register for the Arthropod Genomics Symposium or view more information visit:http://conferences.igb.illinois.edu/arthropod/
poster session and symposium.
of his/her choice (Year 1), and to help organize a local symposium (Year 2). Applications must include a
as a brief description of possible seminar and symposium topics. In addition, the applicant must arrange
symposium at Asilomar, CA (USA) 13-15 Aug 2014
based on a symposium at Asilomar, California in 1964
symposium at Asilomar from August 13-15, 2014. The
symposium will enjoy support from Wiley Blackwell
symposium proceedings including the popular questionanswer transcripts of the original) will also be published
in the Special Issue associated with the symposium.
http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/meeting according to the number of places available)
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (typically 6
in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those
http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/also desirable. We encourage participation from young
symposia. Limited funding is available.
Boulder, CO, 80309-0334). Please use the subject heading: SSB Symposium Proposal.
Population Genetics (Molecular ecology): Dr. Simon SSB Council, and the two selected symposia will receive
A special symposium on Copepod Evolution will be
Special Symposium on Copepod Evolution
Call for 2015 SSB Symposia
for symposia to be held at the 2015 SSB meeting in
Symposium!
Symposium Location: Warner Brothers Theatre, National Museum of American History, Washington, DC
REBioInfoSummer 2014: Summer Symposium in Bioin- QUIRED.
The Frontiers in Phylogenetics Symposium is sponsored by the National Museum of Natural History,
An updated announcement with talk titles and symposium schedule will follow soon.
We are organizing a symposium in Phnom Penh, Cam- Best regards,
Monidarin Chou (Lab. R. Mérieux, Phnom Penh, CamA symposium entitled ’Biodiversity & Health’ that joins
http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/ukplantevolution2014/ Invited speakers:
In particular, Professor Guy Charmantier from Université Montpellier, France has organized a special symposium on Physiological Adaptation from Marine to
become successful. This symposium addresses various
Symposia will cover a variety of topics regarding
http://ucanr.edu/survey/Daniel Levitis Assistant Professor Department of Biol- survey.cfm?surveynumber=3D13084 This symposium
On 5 September 2014 a 1-day research symposium will
This symposium celebrates the career and research
TIPS II Organizing Committee: Peter Kotanen, Uni- Stay tuned at: http://smbe2015.at Preview: Septemversity of Toronto Mississauga (lead organizer) Sandy ber 2014 call for symposia December 2014 call for abSmith, University of Toronto (St. George) Roberta stracts
Cairns VirtualRealitySymposium Aug9-14 . . . . . . . . . . 5
USaskatchewan CSEE Nov1 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . .27
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . .28
(conferences and symposia) with researchers from several countries, in addition to space for posters, oral presentations and artistic-scientific exhibition. Prizes for
Cairns VirtualRealitySymposium
*Virtual Reality: Computer animations as a tool in animal behaviour research* Symposium at Behaviour 2015
I am pleased to announce a symposium to be presented that can be varied in any way, and produces consisat the Behaviour2015 conference in Cairns, Australia, tent test trials that can be easily repeated many times.
established (e.g., sexual selection), personalitys role in to announce an exciting symposium organized to prospeciation remains poorly understood. The proposed mote the use of computer animations in experimental
symposium will serve as an opportunity to synthesize research. Although computer animations arouse lots
be of broad. We welcome both theoretical and empirical computer science. The symposium offers the possibilstudies on this topic, to be presented as oral presenta- ity to demystify the process of creating animations and
We welcome inquiries from parties interested in pre- implementation of 2-D and 3-D stimuli. Researchers alsenting in this symposium. Feel free to contact the or- ready using computer animations get the opportunity
information about the symposium. Formal abstracts show what is already possible.
symposium as your desired venue. For more information on submitting your abstract for consideration for
this symposium, see: http://www.behaviour2015.org/symposium-details/ For general conference informa-
More information about the symposium and possible speakers can be found on the symposium
webpage http://iec2015-symposium.wix.com/virtualreality . Please do not hesitate to contact us if you
in any way to the symposium.
and submit your abstract directly to our symposium
Brain evolution symposium at ESEB 2015
We would like to invite abstract submissions for the folTechnological advances in the last decade strongly suglowing symposium at next years European Society for
Devos, Universidad Pablo de Olavide Allan Drummond, SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
and time.This symposium aims to bring together researchers from across different disciplines within evolutionary biology with a focus on the analysis and understanding of multispecies systems.
abstract submission for this symposium is now open
ESEB Symposium: Evolutionary analysis of ecological
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizers and will be selected for either oral or poster presenWe would like to invite abstract submissions for the tation by early March. When submitting your abstract
following symposium within the 15^th Congress of the please state your preference (talk, poster) during the
We are very happy to invite submissions to the following ESEB 2015 symposium:
We are excited to invite submissions to the symposium
or demographic constraints. This symposium aims at
full symposium description below.
Ashleigh Griffin, University of Oxford http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/group/griffin Jeff Gore, MIT http://gorelab.homestead.com Ours is the symposium 9
in this list: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ The call for abstract and registration are officially open, and the deadline for submission
symposium organisers and will be selected for either Do not hesitate to contact either one of us with any
Your symposium organizers,
Symposium description:
cooperation research. During the symposium we aim to
tribute to the symposium “Evolutionary ecology of co- selection, and focus instead on theory as a problemoperation: theory and experiment” which will be held solving tool, both fully driven by data and directly inat the 15th European Society for Evolutionary Biol- forming future experiments.
to study the ecology and evolution of cooperation. We symposium we wish to bring together researchers who
SYMPOSIUM CONTACT
In case of any symposium-specific questions, feel free to
We are looking forward to an inspiring symposium and
The symposium organizers,
symposium:
The symposium will be part of the ESEB conference
this symposium is to synthesize the most recent experimental, genomic and theoretical work on individual
SYMPOSIUM ABSTRACT
level. In this symposium, we plan to bring together
symposium:
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
considerable variation. This symposium aims to integrate studies of selection on host defense at the phenotypic and molecular genetic level across diverse taxa to
The symposium will take place during the 15th
proposed symposium, we hope to start a rapid growUniversity, USA)
When submitting your abstract, please state your pref- WEBSITE (see symposium 1): http://www3.unil.ch/erence for a talk or a poster. Abstracts will be selected wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ The site for regisby early March. Should you have any question, please, tration for the ESEB meeting and for abstract subdo not hesitate to contact the organizers:
mission for this symposium is now open at: http:/Barbara Tschirren (barbara.tschirren@ieu.uzh.ch)
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizers and will be selected for either oral or poster presenBarbara Tschirren Institute of Evolutionary Biol- tation by early March. When submitting your abstract
min to change rooms. The overall time window allotLars Råberg Department of Biology Lund University, ted to each symposium will be decided by the congress
ESEB symposium on ECOLOGY AND THE EVOLUTION OF SEX
symposium Ecology and Evolution of Sex, which will
We would like to announce the symposium evolution
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: We are still missing
tionary biology: Why sex? Despite the high prevalence This symposium aims at showcasing recent studies and
and long-term co-evolutionary studies between different (sets of) species or genotypes. For this symposium,
symposium “Novel insights in the genetics of sexspecific variation” at the ESEB 2015 conference in Lausanne.
This symposium aims to bring together and showcase
symposium.
Please see the symposium description (no 5) at
the ESEB website: (http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/)
To register for the ESEB meeting and for abstract submission to this symposium please visit:
seeing you at the conference and our symposium.
This symposium thus has a strong methodological, conceptual, and philosophical orientation. Given the enormous amount of financial and human resources currently being directed to genome scans in genetic model
symposium will be of outstanding relevance to the development of evolutionary genomics, and to evolutionary biology in general.
symposium entitled
GENOME SCANS CAN AND SHOULD TELL US SYMPOSIUM CONTACT In case of any symposiumABOUT EVOLUTION”.
The symposium will be part of the ESEB conference
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION Our symposium focuses on the genomic complexity of adaptive evolution,
SYMPOSIUM ABSTRACT The wave of genome-wide
symposium is to bring together contributions from em-
We are looking forward to an inspiring symposium and
The symposium organizers, Daniel & Marius
symposium:
The goal of this symposium is to synthesize the most recent experimental and theoretical work on host-parasite
The symposium will take place during the 15th
SYMPOSIUM DENicolas Rode Department of Biology University of OtSCRIPTION:
ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON GENES AND ALLELES UNmaintenance of genetic diversity.
tify adaptation consists in transferring populations in to the ESEB symposium
The goal of this symposium is to address these chalSYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: To understand the
symposium is to discuss and showcase how to best identify and validate candidate variants, genes, and pathways. Specifically, the symposium aims to (1) evaluate
WEBSITE (see symposium no.
http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ The
abstract submission for this symposium is now open
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizers and will be selected for either oral or poster presentation by early March. When submitting your abstract
The overall time window allotted to each symposium
ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON MELANISM: MACROPHYSIOLOGY TO MOLECULES
to the ESEB symposium
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: In nature, organisms
is a multistep and complicated process and its physiological nature is poorly understood. We take advantage of this symposium to address questions related to
2015 symposium entitled:
The symposium is part of the European Society for
WEBSITE (see symposium no.
www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ The
abstract submission for this symposium is now open http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/ Deadline: 10
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organiz- polyploidisation in wild species.
The overall time window allotted to each symposium great promise to be applied to natural polyploids.
We are looking forward to seeing you in beautiful LauSYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Polyploidisation is a
Our proposal is to organise a symposium, which will
biology, this interdisciplinary symposium will facilitate
conference and our symposium.
We would like to announce the symposium “Groups versus individuals: levels of selection in microbial systems” *Dr. Christian Kost* VW Research group leader
for Chemical Ecology Beutenberg Campus Hans-KnöllThis symposium focuses on how different levels of seStraße 8 D-07745 Jena Germany
We would like to invite abstract submissions for a SymThe aim of this symposium is to discuss how selection
this Symposium, we hope to gather theoreticians and
ESEB 2015 Symposium on Sexually Antagonistic Selection
We are pleased to invite contributions to the symposium
This symposium will be held at the 15th Congress of
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION
tension between patterns of male and female adaptation. The aim of this symposium is to highlight phenotypes that experience intralocus sexual conflict as well
Information about the conference and symposium, and
us. We are looking forward to the symposium and hope Or by recombination rate variation and/or intrinsic into see you next year in Lausanne!
genomic basis of speciation with gene flow. This symposium will explore this debate, bringing together empirical evidence from different perspectives and focusing on
Registration for ESEB 2015 and abstract submission for all symposiums is now available at: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/ . Please be aware the
ESEB 2015 SYMPOSIUM ON SPECIATION GEdeadline for submitting abstracts for both talk and
We are pleased to invite you to attend/contribute to your abstract. All four organisers will evaluate the subthe symposium CHARTING THE GENOMIC LAND- missions and we hope to finalise our selections by early
the idea for the symposium was conceived by a group of
WEBSITE (Symposium No.
34) http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/
please check out our symposium n28: Variation in
A more detailed abstract for this symposium can
be found below and on the ESEB website: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ (n28)
2015 symposium
Dr Anne Charmantier CNRS, Montpellier, France The symposium will focus on protein evolution in broad
Symposium Title : Variation in natural selection: pat- biochemistry and functional/structural genomics.
The symposium will take place during the 15th
eral empirical progress. This symposium will gather
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Proteins evolve by the
have recently been developing methods specific to unin merging these areas to obtain an in-depth underderstanding variation in selection. The symposium
models of sequence evolution. The symposium aims at
process. With questions please contact the symposium ***VENUE*** We will discuss, eat and sleep at
deadline for registration and abstract submission is De- man Symposium organizers: Craig MacLean, Danny
Vitro” Symposium are now open. ESEB 2015 is taking
evolution of bacterial populations. The aim of this symposium is to synthesize the recent profusion of experimental and observational work in real-time bacterial
We are pleased to welcome you to the 13th International Symposium on Tardigrada, which will take place
Tardigrada Symposia take place every three years.
Doc’up (association for PhD students working at UniversiteÌ Pierre et Marie Curie) and Timarcha (associa- The 13th International Symposium on Tardigrada is
years since the 4th Symposium on Tardigrada in 1985.
All the information about the symposium is available at
of the Symposium Registration Fee and the submission
thirty years since the 4th Symposium on Tardigrada in
The 2015 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientific
of outstanding scientists early in their careers to participate in an exciting international symposium about
the ecological and evolutionary processes of the microbiome. The symposium events will take place from 2729 March 2015, in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
CallSymposia
Meeting in Saskatoon invite proposals for symposia for
half-day symposia occurring on the mornings of May
22-24 (two concurrent symposia each day). The theme
landscapes’. We encourage symposia reflecting this
theme, but will consider exceptional symposia from
students (who stand to receive their Ph.D. within one in organizing a symposium please submit the followyear), postdoctoral researchers, and first- or second- ing information to Jeff Lane <jeffrey.lane@usask.ca>
1. Title 2. Description of symposium (200-250 words)
Each symposium organizer will have a budget of $1200
CallSymposia
Reminder: Call for Symposia closing on October 19,
accepting proposals for symposium topics for the 2015
For each accepted symposium the society provides subDear all,
stantial financial support to facilitate symposia organizers to attract outstanding invited speakers (up two
invited speakers per symposium):
http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/program/call-forsymposia/ Return your completed submission to
subject line should read: Symposium submission
CzechRepublic 10thSymposiumOnCladocera Sept28Oct3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Inaugural Lectures and Symposium The ASU Center
Symposium on Evolution, Medicine & Public Health:
Stebbins Legacy A symposium at Asilomar, CA (USA)
based on a symposium at Asilomar, California in 1964 through plenary lectures, specialized symposia, and
symbiosis; speciation (genetics, phylogenetics and pat- pathogen evolution and speciation. The symposium
This conference welcomes both long-time and new parEvolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium, 18th
Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium 2014
research in the field of infectious disease and epidemiolThe Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium ogy. We expect registration to open during March. *To
a title, abstract and your affiliation to cegsymposium@gmail.com by 14th February 2014.
10thSymposiumOnCladocera
we would like to announce the upcoming 10th Symposium on Cladocera to be held in autumn 2014 in the
It is our immense pleasure to inform you that the InRegistration for the conference will be open in mid- stitute for Amphibian Biology of Hiroshima UniverFebruary, in case of interest, sign up to the newletter sity, Japan is going to arrange an international symposium entitled “Frontiers in Amphibian Biology: Enon the conference website.
Some important information about the symposium“@” instead of “(at)”)
ABHU International Symposium
Symposium on ’Symmetry and asymmetry in Biology’
A two-day symposium on ’Symmetry and asymmetry in
we would like to invite abstract submissions to a symposium entitled
*The Symposium of Occam’s Beard: comedy, creativ- “The Order of Things: How genome structure evolves”
professional scientists - with one goal: to create crazy, In this symposium, we invite contributions investigatbut coherent, theories, and support them with real ing the impact of changes in genome structure in eudata. This is the *Symposium of Occam’s Beard*,
theoretical and empirical studies on new and/or emergGulbenkian de Ciência and the Champalimaud Neu- ing model systems. Our symposium will address the
roscience Programme. The first symposium will take evolutionary significance of genomic reorganization in
otype evolution, polyploidization, segmental duplicaThe *Symposium of Occam’s Beard* aims to show the tions, chromosomal rearrangements and the evolution
push it.“ All theories presented at the symposium will evolution? How do sexual conflict in the genome, differbe supported by real scientific data, but will that be ent types of selective regimes, and functional constrains
www.occamsbeard.com/speakers .The event will also Confirmed invited speakers of the symposium are
be reserved starting 25 January at noon via the website of the symposium at www.occamsbeard.com .Any
symposium will be available through live streaming.*
The Symposium of Occam’s Beard is supported by the
here: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ The symposium
symposium will be made available at:
symposium. Details on how to apply are available at
the symposium website.
For questions about the symposium, please contact the
We invite you to submit an abstract for the symposium
Rico, June 8-12 2014. At this symposium, we aim to
We would like to announce the following symposium at
This symposium will explore key events during early
Confirmed invited speakers for this symposium are Pa- networks all promise to shed new light on early evolutricia Wittkopp (University of Michigan) and Uri Alon tion, and this symposium will welcome these and other
The symposium is organized by Martin Embley, Aaron
the symposium:
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to advance the field by uniting researchers working on both
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
To register and submit your abstract for this symposium, please follow the instructions on the congress
Details of the symposium are below, and we will be accepting abstract submissions until 27th January 2014.
Americans. The aim of this symposium is to bring
We are hosting a symposium at SMBE2014 in Puerto
http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientific-program/callfor-symposia/ The Americas were the last part of the
specific symposium’s abstract is below. Presentation
the gap between data and theory. This symposium
symposium are Graham Coop (UC Davis) and Scott
light on this paradox, the present symposium aims to
would like to encourage submission to the symposium
oral presentation in the symposium “Genome evolu- Grishin (UT Southwestern, HHMI) speaking on “Evotion and adaptation in asexual lineages” at the SMBE lution of protein spatial structures and functions”.
abstracts at: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientificprogram/call-for-symposia/ (submission deadline, 27
Symposium Organizers: Blair Hedges & Julie Marin
This symposium will bring together researchers work- sbh1@psu.edu
into the core of evolutionary thought. The symposium
about SMBE2014 can be found at http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ . The symposium is organized by Joanna
A symposium entitled “Timetrees and Global Biodiversity” will take place at SMBE 2014 (8-12 June) in San
We wanted to bring your attention to a symposium on
symposium.
symposium, we will showcase studies on the molecular
their survival. This symposium will feature researchers
*Symposium
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to advance the field by uniting researchers working on both
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
The symposium is organized by Louis Bernatchez and
would like to encourage submission to the symposium
We would like to invite abstract submission to the symposium entitled: “Does Ploidy Matter? Ploidy Impacts
symposium aims to bring together experimentalists and
here: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ The symposium
symposium is to showcase recent theoretical and empirical advances in our understanding of epistasis and
The confirmed invited speaker for this symposium is:
Symposium organizers:
the symposium
We invite you to submit an abstract for the symposium and function
The goal of this symposium is to promote a dialog on
must be submitted though the online system by MONDAY, JAN 27TH at: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientific-program/call-for-symposia/ Please join us for
an exciting symposium, bringing together researchers
Symposium Organizers:
We would like to encourage you to apply for our upcoming symposium “*Joint analyses of genetic and cultural data*,” which will be held at the June 2014 meeting of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution (*SMBE 2014*) in San Juan, Puerto Rico [http://smbe.org/annual/2014/]. Talks will focus on the impact of cultural factors on genetic variation, and vice
*Symposium description:*
can provide more precise inferences of demographic histories. This symposium aims to explore recent advances
The work presented in this symposium will connect researchers who work on these questions and provide a
will host a number of symposia on topics related to human history, including the following sessions: Ancient
for a specific symposium (Genetics of Species Domestication) at SMBE 2014 this year in Puerto Rico (June
8-12th). The specific symposium’s abstract is below.
This symposium is organized by Jose V. Lopez, Todd
SMBE 2014 Symposium Abstract: Genetics of Species
symposium, we would like to discuss recent advances in
strong artificial selection in recent stages of domestication; however, we wish to see this symposium showcase
symposium entitled “Establishing a ”Global Invertebrate Genome Alliance“ (GIGA) for Comparative Genomics” aims to bring together researchers with the ultimate aim to cooperatively sequence or analyse whole
Joe, Todd, I, and other SMBE symposia organizers look
We would like to invite abstract submission to a symposium entitled: “Paleovirology: Endogenous Viral Elements (EVEs) and their evolutionary impact” as part
of the annual SMBE meeting, in Puerto Rico, June 812, 2014. The symposium abstract is below.
symposium will be an opportunity to bring together
(symposium organiser) Department of Zoology University of Oxford The Tinbergen Building South Parks
other costs, accommodation options, pre- and postconference events and symposia.
POSTER SESSION The symposium will feature
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep Genomics on April 3-5, 2014 in Tucson, Arizona.
Symposium
Deep Genomics. The symposium’s theme this year
*Scope of the Symposium: This symposium attempts
symposium “Size and Shape - Integration of morphometrics, mathematical modelling, developmental and
For full conference schedule, including pre- and postconference courses, ReGeneC alumni round table, symposia/fora, and details about conference contributions
speakers in related fields to this symposium (Bruno
We are looking for speakers for a symposium on insect genomics at the annual meeting of the Royal Entomological Society from 3rd - 8th August 2014, to be
The symposium aims to highlight the insights that can www.ece2014.com Each talk = 12 min + 3 min questions. Presenters not offered talks may present posters.
PlantEvolution Symposia funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
PlantEvolution Symposia funding
New Phytologist Symposia 2014 Mycorrhizal symbioses - CAM plants - Next generation
scientists http://www.newphytologist.org/symposia
*Funding of up to £43k is available to run symposia
Symposia (NPS) aim to support emerging and key areas
recent symposia have covered evolution topics. Details of past and upcoming symposia can be found
here: www.newphytologist.org/symposia If you are
interested in organising a New Phytologist Symposium, please complete the proposal pro forma
hours (with some work at night and at dawn) spent in research project, and presenting your work in an enda cold and wet environment and considerable manual of-summer student symposium.
PuertoRico SMBE14 MutationSymposium Jun8-12 . 7
Please also consider the possibility to arrange a minisymposium, see ecmtb2014.org/minisymposia.
by Martin Embley. Two symposia then follow.
824-2474 fjayala@uci.edu http://www.faculty.uci.edu/“Francisco J. Ayala” The second symposium examines the evolution and
Molecules to Macrophysiology’. Submit symposia proposals by the 31st January 2014.
MutationSymposium Jun8-12
PuertoRico.SMBE14.MutationSymposium.June8-12
We are hosting a Symposium at SMBE 2014 (June 8th- 2014
http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientific-program/callfor-symposia/ As biologists, we are interested in
In this symposium, we bring together researchers who
Donald F. Conrad, Washington University in St. Louis: There will be a 1.5hr symposium entitled “Molecu’The developmental basis of mutation in mammals.’
accumulation in the absence of selection in the ciliate Rico. The symposium is organized by Rob Kulathinal, Jason de. Koning, and me. We intend to have
Symposium Organizers:
There will be a symposium entitled “Establishing a
This symposium is organized by Jose V. Lopez, Todd
nomics that the interests of men and women can di- Deep Genomics. The symposium’s theme this year
POSTER SESSION The symposium will feature a
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep Genomics on April 3-5, 2014 in Tucson, Arizona.
Symposium
SYMPOSIUM The University of Alabama | April 2224, 2014 biodiversity.ua.edu
The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. A pre-symposium
convene the symposium, Evolution and Plasticity:
during our annual IMPRS symposium, student retreats,
Symposium at the ASN annual meeting and includes
REMINDER: The deadline for submission of symposium proposals for ESEB 2015 (June 30) is fast approaching! The original call for symposia is repeated
SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS
for you to interact with an unrivalled international fac- Submissions for symposium proposals are now in-
website, currently at: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/ Information about the symposia can be
found at: www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposiuminformation
For symposium submission, please go to :
http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/wpgforms/symposium/ You will be asked to provide:
2. The proposed symposium title.
Organizers cannot invite themselves to their own symposium.
(http://Symposia proposals on overlapping subjects may be re- www.bayceer.unibayreuth.de/IUSSI/de/meeting of/quested to fuse.
At this time, symposium organizers must be prepared
to screen submissions for their symposium (for which
Symposia typically start with one or two invited speakers (40 min each, including discussion) and are followed
time window allotted to each symposium will be decided by the Scientific Committee, depending on the
number and quality of submissions. Some symposia
symposium, but ESEB will pay the registration fee for
www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposiuminformation.
gorithms for molecular evolution - Molecular ecology, http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/biodiversity, and biogeography - Applied phylogenetics: ukplantevolution2014/ Invited speakers:
Symposia will cover a variety of topics regarding
In particular, Professor Guy Charmantier from Université Montpellier, France has organized a special symposium on Physiological Adaptation from Marine to
http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/acquiring ions against adverse gradients, and excretukplantevolution2014/ Invited speakers:
Biogeography: Dr. Bill Baker Population Genetics ? become successful. This symposium addresses various
A special symposium on Copepod Evolution will be
Special Symposium on Copepod Evolution
Symposium, and a three-year AGA membership and aged prior to applying). Applications are due July 8th.
vated individual to participate in a project to investi- in symposia and publications. The position is for one
symposium at Asilomar, CA (USA) 13-15 Aug 2014
based on a symposium at Asilomar, California in 1964
meeting and book, we are pleased to announce a symposium at Asilomar from August 13-15, 2014. The symposium will enjoy support from Wiley-Blackwell Publishers, and associated original papers will appear in a
Special Issue of Molecular Ecology in 2015. The symposium proceedings (including the popular questionanswer transcripts of the original) will also be published
ence will focus on four themes arranged in symposia “orozco.terwengel” <orozco.terwengel@gmail.com>
speakers in each Symposium but we especially want
evance to the Symposium preceding it, but not neces- world, aiming at understanding rapid changes in consersarily. An Integration Activity at the end of the confer- vation practices in light of policy developments, climate
ence and the symposium on Horizon Scanning will fo- change and diversifying market demands. The confercus on the production of a review article that addresses ence will focus on four themes arranged in symposia
speakers in each Symposium but we especially want
free sessions. Free sessions may include talks of relevance to the Symposium preceding it, but not necessarily.
the symposium on Horizon Scanning will focus on the environmental data, phenotypic data etc). This will
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
Save the dates and plan to attend the 12th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium on October 31-November
Would you require funding to attend the symposium?
symposium entitled:*
The symposium will consist of a combination of oral and
funding to one or a few symposium participants.
Speakers at the symposium will be Dr. Ola Finke and the same session as your poster, so that you are able to
tion of the symposium is here:* The main topic of dis- Posters will be evaluated on a 5-point scale, and the
biological patterns. The goal of this symposium is to are not able to do this, please bring his request to the
The AGA symposium is less than a month away – reg- researchers.
session Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
session Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
Key Lecture by David Reznick, UC Riverside, “Hard session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day
session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day epigenetics?”
series of sessions and symposia during which various isThiago da Silva Arruda, Ulisses Dias, Zanoni Dias: sues related to phylogenetic analysis will be addressed:
Symposium 1.âTime: Fossils and Phylogenetic Reconstruction
Symposium 2.âSpace: From Phylogeography to Vicariance Patterns
Symposium 3.âClades: Zooming on Selected Branches
the topic Risk Assessment and Conservation in Herand three Workshops/thematic symposia:
All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
Aveiro),CESAM (Centro de EstudoS do Ambiente e Symposium or view more information visit:
Arthropod Genomics Symposium! Register today to
Friday May 30, 2014: Deadline for Symposium registration
Arthropod Genomics Symposium! Register by Friday The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
low. Two speakers for each session of the symposium
Friday May 30, 2014: Deadline for Symposium regis- will be selected from among the submitted abstracts.
The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consorTuesday, June 10, 2014: Deadline to reserve official con- tium, vector biology, social insects, microbiomes, and
The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
low. Two speakers for each session of the symposium All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consor- To
tium, vector biology, social insects, microbiomes, and Symposium or view more information visit:
to a mini-symposium where the people attending the Biológica de Doñana, and Arndt Hampe.
In addition to undergraduates, graduate students and Some of the contributions will be invited for oral preearly career postdocs, a small number of academics also sentation at the retirement symposium (on 4 July 2014
More info on the symposium is available at http://Julia Day (University College London) Zoe Davies
preprint only: 30 May 2014 * Symposium date: 4 July
GNOME 2014: SYMPOSIUM AND CALL FOR PA- authors to find a publication solution on a case-by-case
GNOME (Gonnet is Not Only about Molecular Evolu- UCL Department of Genetics, Evolution & Environtion) 2014 is a one-day symposium in honour of Prof. ment UCL Department of Computer Science Darwin
Gaston Gonnet’s retirement. The symposium will take Building (Room 631), Gower St, London, WC1E 6BT,
invite you to attend and participate in a symposium
biodiversity in their regions. The symposium will
information about the symposium can be found at
in the southeastern US or to attend the symposium,
please register at http://www.ecu.edu/cs-cas/biology/ncbiodiversity/upload/symposium-registration.docx
We are pleased to announce the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium - 2014, Turkey (EEBST For more details, visit our website http://- 2014). This will be the first international symposium in
The symposium will be conducted in English.
Ethology, and Evolution Colloquium (OE3C) from May oral presentations will be accepted. The Symposium
Molecular and Genome Evolution Symposium, which
of the symposium is broad and includes all aspects of
The symposium will be a day-long event consisting of
the drinks reception following the symposium.
If you have any questions about the symposium
push it.“ All theories presented at the symposium will
be reserved starting 25 January at noon via the webAs it has from its inception, the conference will be held site of the symposium at www.occamsbeard.com .Any
WA. The plenary speaker for the 2014 meeting will symposium will be available through live streaming.*
The Symposium of Occam’s Beard is supported by the
data. This is the *Symposium of Occam’s Beard*,
Gulbenkian de Ciência and the Champalimaud Neuroscience Programme. The first symposium will take
combined symposium entitled “Evolution of the Regulatory Genome”, which will explore recent advances and
The *Symposium of Occam’s Beard* aims to show the
This symposium is organised by Claudia Kutter,
*The Symposium of Occam’s Beard: comedy, creativity, and critical thinking in science*
We and other symposia organisers look forward to receiving your abstracts.
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to advance the field by uniting researchers working on both
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
the symposium:
To register and submit your abstract for this symposium, please follow the instructions on the congress
Details of the symposium are below, and we will be accepting abstract submissions until 27th January 2014.
All details about this program can be found on this web light on this paradox, the present symposium aims to
would like to encourage submission to the symposium
oral presentation in the symposium “Genome evolu- Invited speakers:
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to advance the field by uniting researchers working on both
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
The goal of this symposium is to promote a dialog on
FEB 3RD at: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientificThe symposium is organized by Louis Bernatchez and program/call-for-symposia/ Please join us for an exciting symposium, bringing together researchers who deMaren Wellenreuther
Symposium Organizers:
the symposium How old is my gene? Large-scale analysis of gene origin and function being held in conjunction
for a specific symposium (Genetics of Species Domestication) at SMBE 2014 this year in Puerto Rico (June
8-12th). The specific symposium’s abstract is below.
SMBE 2014 Symposium Abstract: Genetics of Species Center” in the menu once you have logged in. * This
symposium, we would like to discuss recent advances in sessions. * Once all talks have been confirmed, there
strong artificial selection in recent stages of domestication; however, we wish to see this symposium showcase Allen Rodrigo Chair, Evolution 2014 Organizing Comsome of the most dramatic findings of genome evolution mittee
become successful. This symposium addresses various
lier) and I are organizing a symposium entitled “Over- and functional morphology Cardiovascular and respiracoming a Major Physiological Barrier: Adaptation from tory physiology Conservation physiology Developmental physiology Endocrinology and reproduction EvoSaline to Freshwater Habitats” (see abstract below).
Symposium: Overcoming a Major Physiological Bar-
POSTER SESSION The symposium will feature a
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep Genomics on April 3-5, 2014 in Tucson, Arizona.
Symposium
Deep Genomics. The symposium’s theme this year
Let me present to you the symposium Biology of the
1989. Biology of the Pitvipers 2 symposium is now long
SITY SYMPOSIUM The University of Alabama | April
we still have a few slots left for the symposium “Size and
We are very pleased to announce the *6th Annual Trop*Scope of the Symposium: This symposium attempts ical Conservation Biology and Environmental Science
to bring researchers from various research fields to- Research Symposium* *to* *be held at the University
ing to understand how size and/or shape of complex at http://tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/symposium2014/. The
Symposium features a Poster Session in the afternoon
entire Research Symposium and hope to make this a
habit for future symposia.
TCBES program, we have several special events scheduled in addition to the Research Symposium. Registration for both events can be done online at the TCBES
Symposium website. The first event is an *Alumni &
2nd day of the Symposium (April 4)*. The reception
The second event scheduled is a *Post-Symposium Excursion to Hakalau National Wildlife Refuge on Satur- We expect about 250 participants, including university
We are pleased to present an exciting scientific program of keynote lectures and symposia/minisymposia.
(Whereever possible submitted abstracts will be associated with one of the symposia or minisymposia).
will be held August 2-7th at Canyons Resort in Park Symposia and Minisymposia:
City Utah, USA. For more info visit the ICP5 con- N.B. for a full listing of the symposium speakers, see the
ference website at: http://www.conferences.utah.edu/- Symposia and Minisymposia Vienna 2014 Webpage
PlantEvolution Symposia funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
poster session and symposium.
PlantEvolution Symposia funding
New Phytologist Symposia 2014 Mycorrhizal symbioses - CAM plants - Next generation
scientists http://www.newphytologist.org/symposia
*Funding of up to £43k is available to run symposia
Symposia (NPS) aim to support emerging and key areas
recent symposia have covered evolution topics. De- the map, and B. Offer the opportunity to edit existing
tails of past and upcoming symposia can be found entries. You can access forms for both of these purposes
here: www.newphytologist.org/symposia If you are on the website (www.projectevomap.yolasite.com).
interested in organising a New Phytologist Symposium, please complete the proposal pro forma Thank you for taking part in ProjectEvoMap,
Brazil EVOLUTION2015 SymposiumProposals . . . . . 3
aspects traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia when preparing proposals. In addition, Council
emerging fields, fields ripe for syntheses, and fields difBesides the website, you can also follow EMPSEB 20 on ferent from those that have been included in recent SoFacebook (https://www.facebook.com/EMPSEB20) ciety symposia.
gust. The Society provides travel support for organizWe would be very grateful if you could forward this ers and participants in sponsored symposia. Details are
PDF format (under subject heading: SSE Symposia
SymposiumProposals
Call for Symposia for 2015 Annual Meeting
Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunction
with the meeting. Symposium proposals should include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Societysponsored symposium; and (4) a statement that all potential speakers have been contacted and agree to participate in the symposium.
Symposium on Cladocera, to be held in the Czech Republic, is finally open.
The Symposium on Cladocera, a traditional triannual
fication. Symposium organizers are expected to take (Katholieke University Leuven, Belgium) and Michael
Symposium: Biodiversity in Solanum: CharacterizaSymposio: Biodiversidad del género Solanum: Carac- tion, Conservation and Utilization Universidad Técnica
We are pleased to announce the Symposium ’Biodiver(Symposium: Biodiversity in Solanum: Characteriza- sity in Solanum: Characterization, Conservation and
radiation of both plant and animal species in this region make it a natural laboratory for the study of speciation. This symposium will showcase the biodiversity
will also bring together scientists from different disciConfirmed symposium speakers include: - Pablo plines in order to provide the opportunity of close colAcosta, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, laboration.
Registration for the 2-day symposium is $US30.
Symposium proposals for ESEB 2015: potential gender
Further to our recent call for symposium proposals for
ESEB 2015 in Lausanne next year, we wish to encourage potential symposium organisers to take diversity (of
gender, nationality and age) into account when proposing speakers for their symposium.
invited speakers for symposia at previous ESEB (and
other) meetings. The organisers of ESEB 2015 acknowledge this concern and wish to ensure that symposia selected for ESEB in Lausanne draw participants (both
research strengths of the fields represented. We thus encourage prospective symposium organisers to account
tee when selecting symposia.
Further information about the symposia can be
found at: www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposiuminformation
For symposium submission, please go to: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/wpgforms/symposium/
A two-day symposium and workshop bringing together
The 13th Annual Symposium of NYU’s Center for GeDan Rabosky (University of Michigan) will deliver nomics and Systems Biology.” The one- day meeting
Cooper (Trinity College Dublin), Mario dos Reis (Uni- Register (free!) at http://biology.as.nyu.edu/object/versity College London), John Finarelli (University Col- 2014.cgsb.symposium Talks: Adam Auton (Einstein
to apply for the Phylogenomics Symposium and Software School < http://www.cs.utexas.edu/%7Etandy/symposium-2014.html > * April 1: deadline to sign up
2014 American Genetic Association Presidential Symposium - Evolution and Plasticity: Adaptive responses
($650). See the Symposium website for details - http://www.theaga.org/sample-page/aga2014/ AGA meetings are small and friendly, offering students a great opportunity to interact with top international researchers.
session Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day
session Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day Registration includes all the above activities: General
The consequent co-evolutionary arm races might, inWe are organising a symposium on evolutionary phylo- deed, lead to modifications in the hosts1 immune strategenetics and Lepidoptera biodiversity (see details be- gies, demography, behaviour and important ecological
We encourage submission for talks and posters: http:/- hosts. This symposium will bring together an excit/nymphalidae.utu.fi/icbb2014/abstract.html Deadline ing mix of researchers to examine some of the bestfor abstract submission is May 1.
The purpose of this symposium is to present original The whole conference promises additional exciting symresearch on diversification, adaptation and community posia including sessions on various aspects of butterfly Biology, Conservation and Genetics, with plenary
nymphalidae.utu.fi/icbb2014/symposia.html Submismelias2008@gmail.com
ICBB.2014 Symposium:Butterfly.behaviour
We are organising a symposium for the International
Symposium theme: A major goal of evolutionary biology has been to characterize the adaptations between
in brain size, structure or connectivity. This symposium will take a broad approach to examining the role of
tration deadline (advanced courses & field trip on last The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
AHE/SPH - 125; Student - 60; Student University of conference registration and abstract submission is beAveiro - 35 After September 1st: Corresponding re- low. Two speakers for each session of the symposium
For any information or questions contact: The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consorBIO-herpe2014@ua.pt or go visit our website: tium, vector biology, social insects, microbiomes, and
All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
Member of: Italian Society for Evolutionary Bi- Genomics Symposium 2014 <ags@igb.illinois.edu>
Symposium are coming up soon! Register and submit
One week remains to submit abstracts for the 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium! The deadline
lecture on the evolution of promoters and gene regulaThe 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will tion in /Drosophila/ on Thursday evening. Judy Willis
versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The link for All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
low. Two speakers for each session of the symposium To
Symposium or view more information visit:
The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consor- http://conferences.igb.illinois.edu/arthropod/
Paris MathModelsEcolEvol Jul CallSymposia . . . . . . . 9
USaskatchewan CSEE Nov1 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . .14
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . .15
More information about the Symposium and a link to
poster or talk) please fill out and return the form below Ovenden and Einar Nielsen (Symposium convenors)
A symposium entitled “$B!H(BEvolutionary Response 14.00 Doug Speed (UCL Genetics Institute, London)
The Plenary Speaker for the symposium is Philip Mun- loci under artificial selection in laboratory rats.
Symposim Topic Areas & Speakers as of 27 October
Research Symposium - The Origins and Evolution of
This symposium focuses on the evolution and comparative analysis of bacterial and archaeal genomes. How
Latest information will be posted on http://physwww.mcmaster.ca/ ˜ higgsp/symposium.htm
portunities, the 2014 Ecological Genomics Symposium
The Symposium is being sponsored by the Origins Institute at McMaster University and is being held at the
symposium are on Sunday Dec 7th and will take place
est ecological genomics topics. Packed with speakers, poster abstract presentations, and networking op- URL: http://www.eva.mpg.de/genetics/conferences/portunities, the 2014 Ecological Genomics Symposium thmr2015/index.html This meeting aims at bringing
CallSymposia
Prizes will be awarded for the most promising oral and will host 6 selected mini-symposia, with 6 speakers
If you consider participating in the conference, we invite you to propose a mini-symposium devoted to your
symposium, along with a short introduction to the subject and a list of (2+2 spare) invited speakers. You can
propose 1 or 2 (related) mini-symposia by email to infommee2015@list01.biologie.ens.fr Deadline Dec 12, 2014.
Mini-symposia close to the following themes are especially appreciated: epigenetics and information transfer, evolution of cooperation, modelling of speciation,
We invite contributions from non permanent researchers (PhD students, postdoctorants, master students) in English (either oral or poster communicaOnce the list of 6 mini-symposia is established, a call tions) on all aspects of natural history represented in
tions within a mini-symposium (6*4 = 24 slots), free - *Biodiversity Dynamics and Conservation*: any suboral contributions, posters (deadline April 2015).
*Evolutionary studies of clonal organisms have ad- two mini-symposia - Experimental Evolution in Provanced considerably in recent years, but are still tists and The Evolution of Multicellularity - as well as
CallSymposia
Meeting in Saskatoon invite proposals for symposia for Andrews is a charity registered in Scotland : No
half-day symposia occurring on the mornings of May db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
22-24 (two concurrent symposia each day). The theme
landscapes’. We encourage symposia reflecting this
theme, but will consider exceptional symposia from
in organizing a symposium please submit the following information to Jeff Lane <jeffrey.lane@usask.ca>
1. Title 2. Description of symposium (200-250 words)
The University of Tennessee, Knoxville EEB departEach symposium organizer will have a budget of $1200 ment would like to invite students, postdocs, faculty,
CallSymposia
http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/program/call-forsymposia/ Return your completed submission to
subject line should read: Symposium submission
Reminder: Call for Symposia closing on October 19, 5, 2014 and a call for abstracts will follow.
accepting proposals for symposium topics for the 2015
For each accepted symposium the society provides sub- Populationsgenetik Vetmeduni Vienna Veterinärplatz
stantial financial support to facilitate symposia orga- 1 A-1210 Vienna http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/nizers to attract outstanding invited speakers (up two population-genetics/ Tel: +43 1 25077 4338 Fax: +43
invited speakers per symposium):
2014 www.newphytologist.org/tansleymedal New Phytologist Symposia 2015 Genomes of forest trees
2015 Tansley Medal application deadline 1st Dec nich, Germany) www.newphytologist.org/symposia
Travel Fellowships for the 12th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium
12th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium (ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2014) in Kansas City from October
http://The 12th Ecological Genomics Symposium will feature
This year’s event will showcase research on the latTRAVEL FELLOWSHIPS. The fellowships are sup- est ecological genomics topics. Packed with speakported by the American Genetics Association with the ers, poster abstract presentations, and networking opgoal of increasing the cultural and scientific diversity of portunities, the 2014 Ecological Genomics Symposium
the young scientists at the symposium. AGA-sponsored will be an exciting and invigorating avenue for crossstudents and post-docs will receive a free 3-year student disciplinary interactions. Early registration discounts
the symposium.
submitted under separate cover. The letter should be Travel Fellowships for the 12th Annual Ecological Gesent to jenniferrhodes@ksu.edu by Monday, September nomics Symposium
rhodes@ksu.edu. The deadline for submission is Mon- 12th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium (ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2014) in Kansas City from October
the young scientists at the symposium. AGA-sponsored
the symposium.
The 12th Ecological Genomics Symposium will feature
& Health Symposium < http://christopheboete.net/science/biodivhealthPNH/index.html >’ and updates
UPDATE The Frontiers in Phylogenetics Fourth Annual Symposium will be Webcast live >From the
Symposium.
events/florida-genetics-symposium/ufgi-fgs-abstractsubmission/ Complimentary on-line abstract submis- Department of Biology
13th Smithsonian Botanical Symposium 12th Sympo- Proposals (PDF) should be emailed to Eric Schuettpelz
SMBE Vienna CallForSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
paper in the Young Investigator’s Symposium at the
SMBE Vienna CallForSymposia
accepting proposals for symposium topics for the 2015
For each accepted symposium the society provides sub- - Latest updates to Raspbian Linux, Swissprot protein
stantial financial support to facilitate symposia orga- database, lectures and practical classes.
invited speakers per symposium):
http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/program/call-forsymposia/ Return your completed submission to Daniel
office@smbe2015.at by Sunday October 19th 2014. – Daniel Barker http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/staff/The subject line should read: Symposium submission
list of publications and communications / symposia. 5.
symposium at Asilomar, CA (USA)
Join us for this special event honoring the 50th anniversary of the symposium and proceedings $B!H(BThe Genetics of Colonizing Species$B!I(B, with associated special issue of Molecular Ecology and edited volume.
consideration for inclusion in the Special Issue associated with the symposium. (Note: Target deadline
http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/ukplantevolution2014/ Mating system: Dr. Mario
http://symposium.bio.ed.ac.uk/ukplantevolution2014/ Mating system: Dr. Mario
and plan to attend the 12th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium on October 31-November 2, 2014
MO. The Symposium will begin at 7:00 p.m. on Friday, October 31th and conclude on Sunday November
The 12th Ecological Genomics Symposium will feature
the young scientists at the symposium. AGA-sponsored
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas in the United States.
the symposium.
Phylogenetics Symposium
FIPSymposium 8:00 Coffee and Continental Breaka “hands-on” learning experience with experts specialfast Service in Constitution Café 9:00 Introductions
list of publications and communications / symposia. 5.
Symposium. Full schedule, speakers and titles have
Symposium Location: Warner Brothers Theatre, National Museum of American History, Washington, DC
http://bit.ly/FIPSymposium 8:00 Coffee and Continental Breakfast Service in Constitution Café 9:00 Introductions
with particular attention to young researchers. Symposia will cover different topics, including the most
The Conference is organized into 7 thematic symposia
As a part of the Behaviour 2015 conference that will be for the “Costs and Conflict in Reproduction” sympoheld in Cairns, Australia, on 9-14 August 2015, we are sium at this year’s Behaviour 2015 in Cairns (http:/pleased to announce a symposium on the topic “Female /www.behaviour2015.org/). If you wish to submit an
abstract, follow the instructions under “Symposium
Details” (http://www.behaviour2015.org/symposiumSymposium summary:
The aim of this symposium is to draw together current may also impose significant costs to one or both players
research on female song with the goal of understanding (reproductive interference). This symposium aims to
http://www.behaviour2015.org/symposium-details/
Abstract submissions are invited for an oral presentaEizirik, Brock Fenton, Dawn Field, Rosemary Gilletion in the symposium: 8. “Vocalizing females: Sexual
or sexual dimorphism in vocalisations, this symposium
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
*-* Ninth Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium *-*
Kansas State University Manhattan, Kansas Symposium
20 - If you do NOT wish for your poster abstract to be *-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-* INSECT GENETIC
available on the Travel Grants page of the symposium talks that showcase the latest genetic technologies, (2)
Featured Speakers: +Michelle Cilia, USDA-ARS, Boyce go to http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium level/Thompson Institute for Plant Research, Cornell Uni- workshop/index.html . ANNOTATION CAFÃ The
University, USA +Amanda J. Moehring, Western Uni- TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & WORKversity, Ontario, Canada +Daniel E. Neafsey, Broad SHOPS
http://www.symposium.cartagene.qc.ca/ > are now open for
CARTaGENEs < http://symposium.cartagene.qc.ca/
> Workshop and Symposium on Cohorts, Big Data and
Thirty thematic Symposia, including an Open Session
Energetics and temperature: avian flight, cardiorespi- symposium dedicated to Population Cohorts, Big Data
The Symposium will take place at the historic Windsor
engaging environment. Please register at http://symposium.cartagene.qc.ca “Philip Awadalla, Prof” Dear all,
I am pleased to announce that the mini symposium “Trade-offs and adaptive syndromes in evolution
< https://mmee2015minisymposium.wordpress.com/>”, will be held during the - MMEE 2015 - Mathematical Models of Ecology and Evolution < http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/index.html > ConferNESCent BiodiversityDisease
Symposium description: Many models of evolution have
specific outputs, which will include a special “theme” talk to this symposium, please indicate so (select
mini-symposium 8. Trade-offs and adaptive syn- Amaury Lambert (UPMC, Collège de France) Guillaume
inclusion in one of the 13 minisymposia (each minisymposium will welcome 3 contributed talks in addition to
to submit an abstract to a mini-symposium on ’Adaptation in a changing environment’.Please note that the
http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/registrationSymposium description:Adaptation lies at
aim of this symposium is to present recent theoretical
symposium on “Linkage and the limits to selection” as
symposium is scheduled for the last day of the meeting
http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/minisymposium10.html
symposia on adaptation at the meeting that should be
will include plenary talks, symposia, oral and poster presentations < http://andesamazonmeeting.org/scientificprogram/plenary-speakers/ >.
under- de symposia, conférenciers invités et excursions sur le
program of symposia, invited speakers, and field trips.
The 2nd Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium
- Small, friendly symposia with focused breakout groups Bob Reed, Matt Rockman, Neelima Sinha, Stacey D.
mini-symposia - Experimental Evolution in Protists and
University of Lisbon, 17th of July, 2015 Website http://iss-symbiosis.org/Symposia INVITED SPEAKERS Eric
You can register for the specific symposium or the full
The keynote speaker will be Goncalo Abecasis, chair We are pleased to announce this year’s Early Career Sciof Biostatistics at the University of Michigan. Thir- entist Symposium, to be held Saturday, March 28, 2015
alization of Complex Evolutionary Dynamics on Phyloreception will follow the symposium.
2015 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing com- formats, repositories and licenses that make trees useful
Note that these workshops are in addition to a Symposium and Software School that will be offered as a premeeting workshop (May 18-19) by Tandy Warnow. The
symposium will cover new methods for multiple sequence
see http://tandy.cs.illinois.edu/symposium-2015.html
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured Find all relevant information (abstract submission,
The aim of the proposed symposium is to bring together jensenlab.epfl.ch klaudiebank@gmail.com
http://www.izw-berlin.de/Thirteenth Ecological Genomics Symposium in Manhatwelcome-234.html E-mail: symposium@izw-berlin.de
annual symposium to Manhattan, Kansas on November
stitute for Zoo and Wildlife Research (IZW) in the 13th symposium will feature a diverse array of estabForschungsverbund Berlin e.V. Alfred-Kowalke-Straße lished and emerging leaders in the field of ecological and
evolutionary genomics. In addition to the invited speakers, this year’s symposium will expand the number of
SYMPOSIUM <SYMPOSIUM@izw-berlin.de>
Frontiers in Phylogenetics Fall Symposium.
symposium will also be webcast.
o Professor PETER CHRISTEN, Australian National for the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium
You can find the symposium program at: http://eebst2015.bio.metu.edu.tr/Program.html Looking forward to seeing you in Ankara!
strengths in genomics applications, both of these centers host annual symposia that are well attended by
http://www.k-state.edu/agc/images/symposium/AGC Schedule-Final-1.pdf http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015%20symposium%2006242015.pdf Direct
in what has been a series of annual symposia under the
State will host an international symposium March 23-24,
A Symposium on Emerging Plant Disease and Global
also participate in symposia, evaluations, and ethics
the postdoctoral fellow will be expected to lead a seminar, symposium or outreach project that will appeal
international symposia. Experience of research in plant
Seattle SymposiumShortCourse Nov22 . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Seattle SymposiumShortCourse
As part of the 5th Seattle Symposium in Biostatistics, I
Symposium and short course details at http://symposium.biostat.washington.edu Overview of Omics
Conference: Methods in Ecology and Evolution 5th Anniversary Symposium. Live streamed in conjunction
The aim of this symposium is to draw together current
http://www.behaviour2015.org/symposium-details/
a symposium on the topic “Female song: fitness costs
Symposium summary:
to announce the key speakers and symposia that will
*SYMPOSIA*
*14th International Rotifer Symposium*
The 14th International Rotifer Symposium will be held herewith we would like to remind you of the fourth
Need more information about the symposium? Visit between Ghent University (Belgium), the University
35th New Phytologist Symposium: The genomes of
http://www.newphytologist.org/symposiums/view/37
— On behalf of the New Phytologist Trust and symposium organisers we are pleased to invite you to participate in a symposium entitled ’The genomes of forest
trees - new frontiers of forest biology’. The symposium
found on the website http://www.newphytologist.org/symposiums/view/37 Travel grants are available for
— FORMAT The symposium will take place over two
tion available at http://www.newphytologist.org/symposiums/view/37 Contact: Helen Pinfield-Wells np- Get excited for one of the most enjoyable conferences of the year!
You can find more informasymposia@lancaster.ac.uk
We are organizing a symposium titled ’The role of
August 23-28, 2015. The description of the symposium
announcement for the conference, and in our symposium.
symposium as regular (non-invited) attendees. Replies
exciting area of biology. We hope this symposium will
Symposium: The role of monoamines in modulating
of these systems. The goal of this symposium is to
ESEB 2015 SYMPOSIUM ON SPECIATION GENOMICS
January) for our symposium CHARTING THE GENOMIC LANDSCAPE OF SPECIATION which will be
the idea for the symposium was conceived by a group of
WEBSITE (Symposium No. 34) http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ DESCRIPTION:
basis of speciation with gene flow. This symposium will
Registration for ESEB 2015 and abstract submission for all symposiums is now available at: http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/ . Please be aware the
There is an exciting programme that includes both plenaries and thematic symposia, as well as contributed
sessions. Scheduled symposia include:
- Symposium program announced: June 1
We are pleased to announce the 2nd Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium - 2015, Turkey (EEBST
The symposium will be convening on August 67 2015 at the Middle East Technical University,
ecology-evolution symposium organized in Turkey, after EEBST 2014 ( http://www.eebst2014.boun.edu.tr/EEBST-2014/Home.html) held last year at Bogazici
These symposia series started out as a project by the world who are interested in evolutionary developmental
Developmental Biology*, organizing training and education workshops, hosting evo-devo sessions and symposia
The society will hold bi-annual conferences (alternating Developmental Biology*, organizing training and educawith our sister society *The European Society of Evo- tion workshops, hosting evo-devo sessions and symposia
(July 12-16) in Vienna, Austria, closes on February 8. We are writing to advertise our symposium on *the
* Symposium description: Post-transcriptional modi- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
Felsenstein (Univ. of Washington), Johanna Schmitt of the significance of AS evolution. This symposium
SMBE SYMPOSIUM ON DETECTING SELECTION
We are pleased to invite you to participate in the symposium “Ancient genomes: A time machine for investigating natural selection”, which will take place at the Dear colleagues,
symposium titled “The Golden age of Archaea: unveilSymposium abstract: ’Detecting natural selection and ing the diversity and evolution of the third Domain of
In this Symposium we will explore new methods and the
Symposium description:
their role in eukaryogenesis. A symposium specifically
have shaped the chromosomal and regulatory architecture of genomes. This symposium will showcase the
the SMBE Symposium on The biological impact of
Rochester) and Nelson Lau (Brandeis University) are We are please to invite you to our symposium on “Rethe invited speakers in this symposium.
SMBE2015 Symposium:The biological impact of trans- and Evolution (SMBE) in Vienna on July 12-16, 2015.
of Biology. University of Rochester. Nelson Lau. DeSymposium summary:
not without controversy.âThis symposium will feature
processes. This symposium will be of interest to a broad
----Deadline: Submissions of abstracts are open until FebruSymposium description:
how environments are impacted. This symposium aims
SYMPOSIUM ON EVOLUTION AND ECOLOGY OF of their taxonomic composition, genomic diversity and
We are glad to introduce the symposium
(http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/program/symposia/#c518157).
how environments are impacted. This symposium aims
SYMPOSIUM ON EVOLUTION AND ECOLOGY OF
We are glad to introduce the symposium “Evolution and
on July 12th-16th, 2015 (http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/program/symposia/#c518157).
SMBE 2015 Symposium on Evolution of Multicellularity,
We are pleased to announce the symposium entitled
Abstract submissions will be opened until February 8th. Symposium summary: The origin of multicellularity is
----genomes of multicellular species and their closest uniSymposium description:
of embryonic development. In this symposium we will
symposium will bring together researchers with different
We would like to encourage you to apply for our upcoming symposium “*Cancer as a Darwinian process*,”
in Vienna [*http://smbe2015.at/*] . The symposium
*Symposium description:*
We are writing to announce a symposium on “Inferring
Austria. Applications to give a talk as part of this symposium will be accepted through February 8; for details
Symposium Description:
landscape, such as epistasis, are identifiable. This symposium will showcase recent efforts to provide a firm
the two invited speakers for this symposium.
a SMBE2015 symposium, “Fungal Evolutionary Genomics: Unravelling Mysteries from the Forgotten KingVienna SMBE
dom.” The symposium will occur at the annual meeting
abstracts to our symposium on *novel functional ap- Forgotten Kingdom
*Symposium description Formal testing of many and plants, tissue decay, and sugar fermentation. Fungi
Our symposium will highlight research that incorporates (iGénol evures Consortium), F1000 Fungal Genomes,
evolutionary function and process, such as mechanisms this a timely symposium, which promises to illuminate
when reconstructing the evolutionary history of gene expression and regulation. In this symposium we propose
announce a symposium on the topic “Adaptive and nonadaptive evolution of gene expression and regulation”.
Symposium summary:
SMBE 2015 Symposium on the Consequences of Gene
I’m writing to let you know about a symposium we
or displacing endemic genetic variation. This symposium will bring together recent work on archaic hominin
A brief summary of the theme of the symposium:
accurately, taxa are sufficiently sampled, and substitution rate is not so fast. Thus, our symposium will
Untangling information, noise, and phylogenetic reconstruction in genome scale data: A Symposium in SMBE Dear Colleagues,
Abstracts for oral presentations are being sought for a phylogenetics symposium titled “Untangling informaphylogenetics symposium titled “Untangling informa- tion, noise, and phylogenetic reconstruction in genome
A brief summary of the symposium theme:
Phylogenetic information and noise are central com- upcoming symposium titled “Genomics of sex bias: Adponents in successful tree reconstruction as they can dressing questions with or without genomes”. Our syminvariably impact tree resolution, support, and accuracy. posium will be a part of the 2015 Society for Molecular
tution rate is not so fast. Thus, our symposium will Beatriz Vicoso: “Using the surprising diversity of fly
The following is a description of the symposium.
chromosome evolution. This symposium highlights the
Genomics, Evolution, and Bioinformatics The Biodesign their role in eukaryogenesis. A symposium specifically
symposium titled “The Golden age of Archaea: unveiling the diversity and evolution of the third Domain of
Our confirmed invited speakers are Graeme Nicol (University of Aberdeen, UK) and Manolo Gouy (CNRS, SMBE 2015: SYMPOSIUM ON THE HORIZONTAL
Symposium description:
We are pleased to invite you to attend our symposium
* Symposium description: Microbes are found everywhere: in clouds and rain drops, on tree leaves, in soil
to evolutionary genomics. - Open Symposium. - Origins and evolution of molecular innovation. - PopGen
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
symposia:
Dear colleagues, it is our pleasure to invite you to submit abstracts to our symposium about **Origins and
SMBE SYMPOSIUM ON MICRO-EVO-DEVO - VIThis symposium will be a part of the 2015 Society
we would like to welcome you to submit your abstract http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/registration/ Symposium
to our symposium on Micro- Evo- Devo.
change, as well as the evolutionary forces that have We will consider rapid or spontaneous molecular innovashaped it. Therefore, this symposium will highlight how tions of diverse kinds (structures, functions, interactions,
among populations has evolved. This symposium will traits or features in question.
We expect that our proposed symposium will serve to activities.
to realise its full potential to enhance our understanding The symposium will not only address well-documented
SMBE 2015 Symposium on Evolution of Molecular Path- Max Fleischmann Agriculture Building, office 140B
We are pleased to invite you to participate in the symposium “Evolution of molecular pathways and networks:
Symposium summary: Proteins rarely work in isolation.
than those acting at the periphery. In this symposium
We are writing to announce our symposium on “Population genomics of rapid adaptation”, which will be held
Applications to give a talk as part of this symposium
Symposium description:
symposium, we will focus on (i) novel approaches to
SMBE SYMPOSIUM ON SPATIAL POPULATION
SMBE 2015 Symposium on Sex Chromosome Evolu- symposium at the SMBE 2015 meeting entitled: ’Poption, July 12-16, Vienna http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/- Gen in space! Theory and inference in spatial population
We are pleased to invite you to attend a symposium on
of this symposium, is trying to bring together diverse
symposium is to provide a forum for a presentation of recent advances, as well as future challenges and prospects
We would like to invite you to join a symposium on Speciation genomics at the next SMBE meeting in Vienna.
SMBE 2015: Symposium on “Inference of demography
Dear Colleagues, We are pleased to invite you to attend our symposium on Inference of demography and
mechanisms are still largely a mystery. Usually, speciation is defined by mating barriers, which can arise ether * Symposium description: Most of the population genetslowly, due to growing divergence between geographi- ics theory and statistical tests for selection in genomic
fields, starting from molecular and cellular biology to species. In this symposium we highlight recent developevolutionary biology. A rapidly growing amount of as- ments in population genetics theory taking into account
This symposium will welcome research in model and non- on pioneering applications in 1) Darwinian medicine to
The invited speakers that will open the symposium of emergent diseases, and 5) the genomics of crop and
Symposium organizers:
PlantEvolSymposia funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
symposia
PlantEvolSymposia funding
*Funding of up to £43k is available to run symposia fb.com/NewPhytologist
Symposium,
plete the proposal pro forma ( http://- New Phytologist Symposia 2015 Genomes of forest trees
Symposia (NPS) aim to support emerging and key areas
Information about past and upcoming symposia can
student symposium.
paper (< http://m.jhered.oxfordjournals.org/content/Becky Povilus (Ph.D. Candidate, Harvard University) - 105/1/1.full >). Recently GIGA held a symposium with
Discussion leaders and symposium speakers for “Young
sity of New England, Biddeford, ME (Applicants Now Symposim Topic Areas & Speakers
symposium that will be held at the Behaviour2015 conference in Cairns, Australia, in August 2015. Abstracts
We are pleased to announce details for the 2015 Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics Symposium (EGGS), a
as well as workshops, symposia and plenary speakers.
This symposium seeks to join evolutionary ecologists,
welcome to present their research at the symposium 22)
wpmu/eseb2015/symposium-information/ >
It is our pleasure to announce a Symposium on
that will take place during the next ESEB meeting, August 10th-14th 2015 in Lausanne, Switzerland (www.unil.ch/eseb2015). The Symposium is organized by Dr. Santiago C. González-Martı́nez (Madrid,
these analyses. This Symposium will welcome original
ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON GENES AND ALLELES UNDERLYING ADAPTATION
symposium
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: To understand the
in omics-level screens. The goal of our symposium is to
the symposium aims to (1) evaluate methods by which
WEBSITE (see symposium no.
18): http://www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium list/ The
site for registration for the ESEB meeting and for abstract submission for this symposium is now open at:
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organizers
The overall time window allotted to each symposium
together a great symposium program.
parameters using genomic sequence data. This symposium aims to bring together scientists working on both
symposium will foster the identification of key future
we’re happy to announce the symposium “Next-
We would like to invite you to the symposium “EvoluCOGNITION?
www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/. This symposium will
talks posters symposia
Symposia:
symposium, (b) name and affiliation of the organizers,
PROTOLANG 4 Ways to (proto)language conference (c) a general description of the symposium (400 words),
are responsible for submitting the full symposium program to the EasyChair website: https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=protolang4. The organizers will also
Note: abstracts of talks, posters and symposia must be
Symposium*-*-*-*-*- June 17, 2015 to June 19,
France +Additional speakers will be announced soon! Friday, June 19 V Symposium Platform and Poster
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from Sessions, tentatively concluding at 5:00 pm
relevance. The program will include platform presentations, a welcome reception, a gene annotation workshop VENUE: The 2015 Symposium is being hosted by the
poster abstract submissions will be selected for platform in Manhattan, Kansas. Symposium sessions will be held
*-*-*-*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-*-*-*-*- INSECT rooms will also be available.
for effective insect genetic engineering. Proposals from 2015 SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZING COMMITTEE: At
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & WORK- mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Wednesday evening, June 17, 7:30 pm - Arthropod Genomics Symposium begins with keynote presentation
Thursday, June 18 V Symposium Platform and Poster
you also to propose a mini-symposium devoted to a
your symposium, along with a short introduction to the
*Statistical approaches to detect biological adaptation* can propose 1 or 2 (related) mini-symposia by email to
< https://risweb.st-andrews.ac.uk/portal/en/persons/- Note: mini-symposia close to the following themes are
Once the list of 6 mini-symposia is established, a call for
http://www.mfpl.ac.at/vips/careers/vips-postdocs/- within a mini-symposium (6*4 = 24 slots), free oral
proposals of symposia (details below) at the conference
The conference MMEE 2015 will host 6 thematic minisymposia with 6 speakers each: 2 invited speakers (approx. 25’ talk) and 4 contributed speakers (approx. 15’
Harbor Symposia Series, the Koch’s Institute, Pasteur
site http://iss-symbiosis.org/Symposia Contact nlgo- vaccination therapy, genetic engineering)? And what
You can register for the specific symposium or the full
A Symposium and Software School focusing on New
held on May 18-19, immediately preceding the standalone meeting at the University of Michigan. The symposium will cover new methods for multiple sequence
see http://tandy.cs.illinois.edu/symposium-2015.html
1Note that these workshops are in addition to a Symposium and Software School that will be offered as a
- 26 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
IMPRS symposium, student retreats, and conference
Dan Barbash (Cornell University) Repetitive DNA dyThe AGA PresidentÂÂs Symposium, Chromosome Evo- namics and hybrid incompatibilities
if you wish to attend the symposium, but
The AGA Presidents Symposium, Chromosome Evoluof MendelÂÂs first law: biased chromosome segregation
young researchers. Symposia will cover different topics,
The Conference is organized into 7 thematic symposia
- 4:30 PM preceding the International Symposium on
Symposia include: - The value of long term monitoring
Symposia include:
- 28 symposia on cutting edge topics with 42 invited speakers http://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/program/9 July Analyzing environmental DNA: Bio-Linux on the symposia/ - A special symposium on NGS library conEOS Cloud (T. Booth, CEH Wallingford) >From reads struction
Call SSB Symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Call SSB Symposia
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
Reminder: Call for 2016 SSB Symposia
for symposia at the 2016 SSB meeting in Austin, Texas an indication of whether the speakers have been invited
Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (typically 6
in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those
symposia. Limited funding is available.
heading: SSB Symposium Proposal.
SSB Council, and the two selected symposia will receive
(http://www.springer.com/life+sciences/evolutionary+%26+developmental+biology/journal/427 ). This Special Issue is based on the Symposium
find more information about the symposium here:
Submit abstracts by June 5th for a day-long symposium
— Symposium Overview —
symposium should bring proposals from many scientists
this symposium, create new connection and collaborations. The talks by those scientists will be integrated
Symposium.
speaker, symposia and special sessions, contributed talks
Symposia and special sessions: Early Career Malacologists, Conservation of Molluscs, Great Lakes Malacology,
A symposium bringing together researchers interested
Website: http://plasticity.uconn.edu/symposium-south- 1. Introduction to Extinction and Extinction Bias
Symposium*-*-*-*-*-
Symposium The Ecology and Evolution of Emerging Symposium Website: www.ksu.edu/agc HOTEL
Symposium will run 12-14 July at Penryn Campus, Ex- is Wednesday, May 20. A block of rooms has been
tions,”please enter: Arthropod Genomics Symposium. Café, and arthropod genomics-related poster sessions.
during the Symposium.
for oral presentations at the symposium.)
*-*-*-*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-*-*-*-*REGISTRATION DEADLINES
Please register online at the Symposium website,
symposium level/index.html >!
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from analyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scientists
behaviour and toxicology. Two special symposia have
ZHAW symposium 2015: “Life in Numbers 2: Genomics < http://www.lestudium-ias.com/#%21analysis-andand Evolution of Microbial Pathogens”
and Evolutionary Biology Symposium Turkey 2015 (Auattached registration form or webside http://gust 6-7, Ankara) has been extended to May 31st.
14th Annual General Meeting of the FoS and Symposium
Meeting of FoS and Symposium entitled “Biodiversity
and Symposium entitled “Conservation of the Natural and Cultural Heritage of Socotra” will take place
14th Annual General Meeting of the FoS and Symposium Dear colleagues,
Conference website: https://smbe2015.univie.ac.at/Meeting of FoS and Symposium entitled “Biodiversity
and Symposium entitled “Conservation of the Natural and Cultural Heritage of Socotra” will take place
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
- An Open Symposium featuring five speakers selected
- A special symposium on NGS library construction
SSBSymposia for Evolution2016 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
SymposiumProposals EvolutionMeeting Austin2016 51
SSBSymposia for Evolution2016
Call for 2016 SSB Symposia
for symposia to be held at the 2016 SSB meeting in
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
simulation program produce 100 separate files, each Symposia are restricted to half-day sessions (typically 6
in symposia whose topics do not overlap with those
also desirable. We encourage participation from young ipants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on
symposia. Limited funding is available.
SSB Symposium Proposal.
SSB Council, and the two selected symposia will receive
PDF format (under subject heading: SSE Symposia
SymposiumProposals
Convention Center in Austin, TX. The SSE Council invites proposals for the two Society-sponsored symposia
to be held in conjunction with the meeting. Symposium proposals should include: (1) a synopsis of the
symposium theme (about one page); (2) a tentative
topics; (3) a rationale for the symposium explaining why
appropriate for a Society- sponsored symposium; and
contacted and agree to participate in the symposium.
Symposium organizers are expected to take into account
ditionally underrepresented in Society symposia when
questions and directions for future interdisciplinary reon pathogen genomics in a mini-symposium.
The American Society of Naturalists Call for Symposia Standard Time on March 31, 2015 by email (jessica.gurevitch@stonybrook.edu) as a single pdf attachASN meeting at Asilomar, California 10-14 Jan 2016
half-day symposia to be held at the meeting.
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list
symposia, although there may be opportunities to seek
external symposium funding. Speakers should assume
a justification for the symposium explaining why the
and on it being substantively different from recent symposia sponsored by the Society. All applicants will be
We are hosting a symposium on ?Genetic and epigenetic
remain poorly understood. We propose a symposium to
Molecular Mechanisms and Evolutionary Consequences our symposium if you have a relevant abstract for this
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) invites you to attend the following symposia at the annual
MAIN SYMPOSIUM: “Ten Years of the Triple Helix: 10 days away, so don’t delay:
RUSSELL SYMPOSIUM: “From head to toe: Integra- of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/tive vertebrate morphology and evolution” (May 26, home.htm rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
2015) (A symposium honouring Tony Russell’s many
HILLARY MADDIN (Carleton) “Re-evaluation of the Symposium (EGGS), a Genetics Society (http://homology of the bones of the tetrapod cranial vault”
STUDENT SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM: “Techniques and no registration is required. The meeting aims to
versity of Dublin http://www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol/ AbFOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THESE SYMPOSIA, stract registration for talks closes in a few weeksplease email your name, institution, position (stuSEE:
Symposium and IGT-RCN Workshop!
Symposium*-*-*-*-*- June 17, 2015 to June 19,
REGISTRATION Please register online at the Symposium website, www.ksu.edu/agc! ABSTRACT DEADLINES IN 2015: Monday, March 9 V If you DO wish
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318 The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
VENUE: The 2015 Symposium is being hosted by the
in Manhattan, Kansas. Symposium sessions will be held
*-*-*-*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-*-*-*-*- INSECT available.
link < http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium level/- Quantitative Genomics 2015
workshop/index.html > of the symposium website.
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & WORK- Wellcome Trust Headquarters, London
nomics Symposium begins with keynote presentation the Wellcome Trust Headquarters at Euston square in
Thursday, June 18 V Symposium Platform and Poster The conference will focus on giving early-career reSessions
Friday, June 19 V Symposium Platform and Poster Brian Charlesworth < http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sessions, tentatively concluding at 5:00 pm
program of symposia, invited speakers, and field trips.
de symposia, conférenciers invités et excursions sur le
the pace of taxonomy; Rooted in deep time: PalaeonDiscussion leaders and symposium speakers for “Young tological contributions to systematics) and contributed
Applications to attend are now open and information can students wishing to attend the symposium on ’The value
13135 Symposim Topic Areas & Speakers - Advances
ary Genomics (John Colbourne, Sherry Flint-Garcia, well as the specific symposium, and are encouraged to
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE confirmation).
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
- many awards (https://www.smbe.org/smbe/- members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
do not hesitate to contact us if you need any information about the symposium “Adaptive and non-adaptive
announce a symposium on the topic “Adaptive and nonadaptive evolution of gene expression and regulation”.
Symposium summary:
when reconstructing the evolutionary history of gene expression and regulation. In this symposium we propose
We would like to invite you to join a symposium on Speciation genomics at the next SMBE meeting in Vienna.
This symposium will welcome research in model and non- be added to the distribution list for conference-related
The invited speakers that will open the symposium 20013-7012 Telephone 202.633.0914 Fax 202.786.2563
- Registration open now - Deadline for mini-symposia:
at conferences or symposiums. The Director will serve
their papers during a day-long symposium of Hamilton
student symposium.
local symposium (Year 2). Applications must include a
as a brief description of possible seminar and symposium topics. In addition, the applicant must arrange for
and how to implement them in their research. The workAre you interested in the “Virtual Reality”-Symposium shop also serves to form a network of scientists using
This workshop is a supplement to the “Virtual Reality”- Matt Mitchell (mwmitchell@drexel.edu) for more inforSymposium held at Behaviour2015: http://iec2015- mation.
symposium.wix.com/virtual-reality Dipl.-Biol. Stekaty.gonder@gmail.com
JOIN our “Virtual Reality”-Symposium at Behaviour2015 in Australia!
of adaptation”. The format of the symposium is pretty
Symposium (what will you get from it? how will you
Please have your advisor send a letter of recommendation to dobsymposium@gmail.com, under the attention
SSE SYMPOSIUM “THE MULTIPLE DIMENSIONS J-526 160 Convent Avenue New York, NY 10031, USA
docs interested in participating in the SSE Symposium Carolina Carnaval <carolinacarnaval@gmail.com>
The Symposium will gather evolutionary biologists,
Awardees will attend the Symposium, network with stu- reimbursement of their registration fee (early rate for
to dobsymposium@gmail.com BY NO LATER THAN
Under a Subject Line “DoB Symposium Travel Award, your top choice however. Typical jobs include being a
symposia, presidential addresses from all three societies, * post-conference excursions to scenic sites such as Niaand various other special events/talks, it is shaping up gara Falls
There are plenary lectures and symposia that will address key topics on Plant Molecular Evolution on processes such as Photosynthesis, Plant Microbe interaction, Plant signaling and Environmental perception and
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
*-*-*-*-* Ninth Annual Arthropod Genomics analyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scienSymposium*-*-*-*-*tists interested in genomic studies of Arthropods, both
Symposium Website: www.ksu.edu/agc REGISTRAselected for platform presentations. Postdoctoral, gradTION DEADLINES
Please register online at the Symposium website, www.k- to attend. Sessions conclude Friday evening, followed
*-*-*-*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-*-*-*-*-
during the Symposium.
genomics. The NSF-RCN on Insect Genetic Technolofor oral presentations at the symposium.)
go to http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium level/workshop/index.html . GENOME TRAIN WORKSHOP
following the symposium.
Evolution symposium (MaGE), will take place on Monday 15th June 2015 at the University of Manchester, all the best Pierre
UK. The remit of the symposium is broad, including Pierre
The symposium will be a day-long event consisting of two plenary lectures, a series of contributed
We are writing to draw your attention to a symposium
symposium details are given below.
our symposium **(number 19) >From Molecular Machines to Performance and Life History of Ectotherms:
Temperature, Oxygen, Cell and Body Size (http://www.iccpb2015.confer.uj.edu.pl/symposia)**, organised
registration is 14th April The deadline for abstract subSymposium: Origin and role of epigenetic information mision is 15th June
Symposium organizers:*
talk at the symposium, please register at the meeting website, http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/registration.html, and select the symposium when
symposium to discuss the merits of such an approach.
*Symposium abstract:*
This symposium aims at integrating perspectives of As you already know the XV European Congress of
some ectotherms tends to decrease in warm and hypoxic behaviour and toxicology. Two special symposia have
origin of these phenomena, the symposium will provide researchers: Drs. Jeffrey Leis (Australia), Joana Robalo
see www.rug.nl/gelifes-symposium or contact gelifesoffice@rug.nl.
about the symposium, check out our website: http://tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/symposium2015/ . The schedule
http://tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/symposium2015/schedule.html Everyone is welcome!
Annual TCBES Research Symposium
This year’s symposium features:
08:45 Experimental evolution symposium
*Mike Brockhurst* - The experimental evolution ap-Free refreshments throughout the symposium, with proach
09:00 Multicellularity symposium
the symposium and participate in the workshop. Researchers from underrepresented groups and early-career
Announcement: NSF Workshop and Symposium at 2015
port a symposium and workshop titled, ’It’s about time:
symposium, email dosmann1@stanford.edu.
symposium and workshop will:
The aim of the proposed symposium is to bring together
The aim of the proposed symposium is to bring together
We are happy to announce an exciting symposium “The
symposia, we organize this meeting to promote discussion and debate about ideas, concepts of how we can
13th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium November 6-8, 2015 Hilton Garden Inn, Manhattan, KS Symposium website: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html This year marks the 13th anniversary of
the Ecological Genomics Symposium. The symposium
genomics. Symposium details can be found at http://-
ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html. The meeting
http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/NewYork PopulationGenomics
ecogen.kstate.edu/symposia/2015abstract.html. DEADThe workshop is intended to promote interaction among
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Hilton will feature invited talks by Lindy McBride (Princeton)
hotel room online by visiting the Symposium website. selected from abstracts submitted by students and postdocs. All talks will be 15 minutes. The meeting’s focus
website, http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html,
Integration Symposium, and the summer graduate field
also participate in symposia, evaluations, and ethics
versity of Lausanne, Department of Ecology and EvoluNew Phytologist Symposia 2015/2016 Plant-microbe tion, Le Biophore, 1015, Lausanne, Switzerland
plenary lectures, express debates and symposia) will
Plenary lectures and symposia will also deal with
afternoon symposia and exiting evening events. To register, visit: http://www.amnat2016.org/register.html
January 10-14, 2016. The goal of the meeting is to In addition to fantastic symposia, this year’s program
We are happy to announce the symposium “Experi- Prizes for bed and breakfast per night are: single room
theory and modelling. The symposium will take place to (1) present a talk (15 + 5 minutes), a poster (please
hotel room online by visiting the Symposium website.
NEXT website, http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html,
13th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium November 6-8, 2015 Hilton Garden Inn, Manhattan, KS Symposium website: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html This year marks the 13th anniversary of
the Ecological Genomics Symposium. The symposium
genomics. Symposium details can be found at http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html. The meeting
http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015registration.html. This year, the registration price
online are at: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015abstract.html. DEADLINE: September 18.
13th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium November 6-8, 2015 Hilton Garden Inn, Manhattan, KS Symposium website: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html This year marks the 13th anniversary of
the Ecological Genomics Symposium. The symposium
will feature a diverse array of established and emergVENUE: The symposium will take place at the Hilton ing leaders in the field of ecological and evolutionary
genomics. Symposium details can be found at http://- Jennifer Rhodes <jenniferrhodes@ksu.edu> Jennifer
ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html. The meeting Rhodes <jenniferrhodes@ksu.edu>
http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015registration.html. This year, the registration price
online are at: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015abstract.html. DEADLINE: September 25.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Hilton
hotel room online by visiting the Symposium website.
website, http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2015.html,
2015 Frontiers in Phylogenetics Fall Symposium. When:
I would like to bring to your attention a meeting on Divergence Time Estimation that will be held at the Royal The symposium will also be webcast - feel free to publicize this link to any interested colleagues that are unable
Frontiers in Phylogenetics Fall Symposium.
Today, the Scientific Committee of the EED invites proposals for short symposia for the Uppsala conference.
submission of symposia on broad and integrative topics
across scales: from within genomes to disease (e.g., developmental biology, genetics, palaeontology, geand environments The symposium will be web- nomics, theoretical biology). Symposia that combine
9:00-9:15 Welcome 9:15-9:50 Anna Savage (University just from those of the proposed organizers. Symposia
gia): Phylogenetic and population genomic approaches in a single symposium. To facilitate selection of symfor investigating plant-parasite evolution 10:25-10:40 posia for the program, please include the following in
Phylogeny-driven environmental sequencing approaches (1) Title of symposium
(3) Brief (abstract length) description of the symposium, including a short indication of what the different
(4) Brief justification of why the symposium is appropriate for an EED meeting (e.g. timeliness, general
(5) Contact information of all symposium organizers
financial support for your symposium
Society thus encourages symposium organizers to seek
external support for their symposium.
support for speakers invited to a symposium, and the
and information about three afternoon symposia and and Conservation
PhD Student Speakers include... Janet MacLean- of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list
erosion risk assessment for Scotland Amanda Trask- A justification for the symposium explaining why the topic
symposium (up to one page).
Symposium Proposal: ESA 2016. Proposals that include women, young investigators, and individuals from
and on it being substantively different from recent symposia sponsored by the Society. All applicants will be
Emilie Snell-Rood ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Call for ASN Symposium to be held at the 2016 ESA
The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium
proposals for a special symposium to be held at the
annual symposium at ESA, ASN hopes to strengthen
Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal
Thirteenth Ecological Genomics Symposium in Manhattan, Kansas
The Ecological Genomics Institute at Kansas State University is bringing the 13th annual symposium to Manhattan, Kansas on November 6-8 at the Hilton Garden
Inn. As in previous years, the 13th symposium will feature a diverse array of established and emerging leaders
addition to the invited speakers, this year’s symposium
Because the 2016 symposium is in conjunction with will expand the number of speakers to be chosen from
the symposium for an additional fee. You may register
for this tour when you register for the symposium.
the symposium for an additional fee. You may register
for this tour when you register for the symposium.
Thirteenth Ecological Genomics Symposium in Manhat- September.
versity is bringing the 13th annual symposium to Man- Pierre
Inn. As in previous years, the 13th symposium will feature a diverse array of established and emerging leaders
addition to the invited speakers, this year’s symposium
on the SICB web site (http://sicb.org/meetings/2016/abstracts/index.php), and select our symposium under
tary session to our Society-wide Symposium at the next http://post.queensu.ca/ ˜ bonierf/index.html Frances
and maternal effects. Our symposium, ’*Evolutionary
symposium, including our list of invited speakers, can
be found at: http://sicb.org/meetings/2016/symposia/evolendo.php We will be holding a social for symposium
Our symposium has received funding, which will be
Almerı́a is also glad to announce the 1st Symposium on
Symposium has a limited capacity of students.
form for the 2016 Symposium is active:
The first annual Symposium will take place on Septem- For further information, please feel free to contact us:
1) Polymicrobial Infection and Disease 2) Pathogen several special symposia on topics such as evolution and
plenary talks, workshops, symposia, the ZET lecture,
sessions, poster sessions, as well as workshops, symposia,
9th Symposium of Morphometrics and Evolution of
June 1st and 2nd 2016. website (in french): http://biogeosciences.u-bourgogne.fr/smef9/ This symposium
Registration deadline is April 15 http://biogeosciences.u-bourgogne.fr/smef9/documents/smef9 second circular.doc This symposium is free
The Department of Biological Sciences at the State Uni- projects is evidenced by Quest, a daylong symposium
Dear all, This is a reminder that the FSBI 2016 international symposium on “Fish, Genes and Genomes”,
symposium (see the programme to wet your appetite!) ferns, lycophytes, and their extinct relatives).
Mayr symposium during the meeting. All applicants
the Mayr Award symposium. The Mayr symposium
Portland ASN Jun23-27 CallSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
we would like to bring to your attention a symposium The objective of the International Conference on Holoon ’Experimental Evolution & Community Dynamics“ bionts, Paris 2017 is to, for the first time, bring scientists
at https://symposium.inra.fr/holobiont-paris2017 . Or- (YSF.SystematicsAssociation@gmail.com), supplying
Come to the 7th International Symposium on Biomolecular Archaeology (ISBA7) from 14th -16th September HUMAN POPULATION GENETICS CONFERENCE;
CallSymposium
Symposium at Evolution 2017
The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium
proposals for a special symposium to be held at the
Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal
sponsor a symposium that broadly celebrates the journal and the society. For instance, a symposium might
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list
justification for the symposium explaining why the topic
symposium (up to one page).
Symposium Proposal: ESA (or Evolution) 2017. Proposals that include women, young investigators and
and on it being substantively different from recent symposia sponsored by the Society. All applicants will be
Emilie Snell-Rood ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Symposium at ESA 2017
The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium
proposals for a special symposium to be held at the 2017
annual symposium at ESA, ASN hopes to strengthen
American Society of Naturalists Call for Symposium
Symposium at Evolution 2017
The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium
proposals for a special symposium to be held at the
Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal of Evolution, the American Society of Naturalists, and
behavior and organismal biology. Proposals are encour- Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal
ecology and behavior. Because this symposium is in behavior and organismal biology. The committee will
sponsor a symposium that broadly celebrates the jourEmilie Snell-Rood <emilies@umn.edu>
nal and the society. For instance, a symposium might
Symposium at ESA 2017
The registration for the PAG meeting is open: International Plant & Animal Genome XXV - http:/The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium /www.intlpag.org/ - January 14-18, 2017 - San Diego,
proposals for a special symposium to be held at the 2017 CA, USA
annual symposium at ESA, ASN hopes to strengthen genomics globally (thousands of attendants; including a
Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal a growing community of Ecology and Evolution sessions
that address important emerging issues in evolution, and topics of #PAGXXIV: https://pag.confex.com/ecology and behavior. Because this symposium is in pag/xxiv/meetingapp.cgi/Session/3531. And here for
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list
justification for the symposium explaining why the topic In our Avian Genomics workshop we seek to present curand speakers are appropriate for a Society-sponsored rent states of *omics in ecology and evolution of birds,
symposium (up to one page).
Symposium Proposal: ESA (or Evolution) 2017. Pro- Very best regards, Robert Kraus
and on it being substantively different from recent symposia sponsored by the Society. All applicants will be
Emilie Snell-Rood ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Symposium: Investigating ecological and evolutionary
adaptation. The aim of this symposium is to discuss the
to a symposium where some of the world’s leading
The online abstracts submission for the symposium is
open until the 5th of September. This symposium is
Symposium: Origins and Natural History of the ScandiTrainee travel awards will be notified before registration
version of the NAS symposium.
A symposium centered around the upcoming publication your seat in advance.
Symposium “Evolution meets Ecology” which will take
Groningen ESEB InversionSymposium Aug2017 . . . . 7
molecular evolutionary biology. This symposium aims
our symposium will stimulate and direct future studies
you all to submit an abstract to our symposium on
The list of symposia is available at:
http://www.eseb2017.nl/scientific-programme/symposiumlist/ Please note the following dates:
our symposium “Integrating micro- and macroevolution”
in the same analysis framework. In this symposium, we
InversionSymposium Aug2017
ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON INVERSIONS & SUPER- E-mail: Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch Office: +41 21 692
to the ESEB symposium
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Chromosomal inversions represent common structural mutations that result in the reversal of gene order in the corresponding
questions. With this symposium we seek to foster a
We would like to announce the symposium [S8] Major
This symposium focuses on major evolutionary transitions to eusociality and multicellularity.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s18-the-evolutionarysignificance-o/ Organizers: Martin Kapun and Thomas Drawing on this diverse work, our symposium will highFlatt (University of Lausanne)
butions; we are interested in both empirical and the- philosophical contributions, this symposium will not
many more are being generated. This abundance of geand our symposium.
The aim of the symposium is to bring together a multidisciplinary group of scientists working on the ecology,
We are happy to announce that the German Zoological as highlight future avenues of research. The symposium
There are 50 spots available for the symposium.
We are pleased to announce that a symposium on the day - for Galaxy users (biologists and bioinformaticians)
Contributions are welcome to a symposium we are organising within the International Congress on Invertebrate
The symposium “Morphological Lazarisation: when
of museum collections, and how material collected long international symposium on the biology of symbiosis.
Symposium
symposium-symbiosis
Registration is now open for an ASBMB Special Symposium on gene expression and evolution. The symposium
http://www.asbmb.org/SpecialSymposia/2017/genetics, cancer research, morphology, life-history evolugeneexpression/registration/ http://www.asbmb.org/tion, systematics, taxonomy, and behavior. This meetSpecialSymposia/2017/geneexpression/program/
ing is totally open to every aspect of livebearing fishes http://www.asbmb.org/SpecialSymposia/2017/and even if you are interested in livebearing organisms
to attend a recruiting symposium at Caltech on Feb 2,
37th New Phytologist Symposium: Plant developmental
https://newphytologist.org/symposia/37
Eighteen leading scientists will speak at the Symposium.
University Udo Seifert, University of Stuttgart Guy- Call for Symposia Got a great idea for your own symBart Stan, Imperial College London Pieter Rein ten posium? The New Phytologist Trust is accepting proWolde, AMOLF Amsterdam Aleksandra Walczak, ENS posals for symposia funding up to £43,000, for 2018 onParis Roy Wollman, UC San Diego
New Phytologist Symposia 2016 Plant developmental <bjl48@hermes.cam.ac.uk>
State will host an international symposium March 23-24,
http://www.royensoc.co.uk/content/endosymbiont-special-interest-group-meeting-15th*Event Title:* A Symposium on Emerging Plant Disease
PHILIPPE Hervé (Moulis, France) Models of sequence The 2016 Ecological Integration Symposium Committee
versity Ecological Integration Symposium *on *March
evolution of lineages and biotas using Bayesian apUniversity*. The Ecological Integration Symposium
participants with the topics of the conference. Scien- undergraduate students are encouraged to present original research during the student research symposium on
Friday, April 1. Please visit our presentation registration We are pleased to announce that the annual Evolutionpage for more information on submission requirements ary Genetics and Genomics Symposium (EGGS) will
the 2016 Ecological Integration Symposium!
2016 Ecological Integration Symposium Committee
CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
an exciting international symposium entitled “Frontiers
in Community Assembly.” The symposium events will
participate in panel discussions at the symposium.
CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM
an exciting international symposium entitled “Frontiers
in Community Assembly.” The symposium events will
The 2016 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientific nominees will be invited to present their work and to
participate in panel discussions at the symposium.
The 2016 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientific
research symposium at the end of the program.
in an end-of-summer student symposium.
We have 12 symposia run in two parallel sessions, covering diverse topics in ecology, evolution, genetics and
the talks falling outside the symposia. We aim for
of symposia, see http://iussi2016.azurewebsites.net/2015/08/20/symposia/ The venue will be the University of Helsinki downtown campus, within easy reach
symposia, we organize this meeting to promote discusUDebrecen Hungary
our symposium “The evolution of mechanisms: a work- Thomas Flatt (University of Lausanne): The mechashop on the integration of life history evolution and nisms underpinning life history evolution
Symposium summary:
symposium as special issues.
The 3nd Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium
2016 congress and its CRC-satellite symposium, taking
Abstract submission deadline for the Symposium has
The organizers of the symposium have arranged with of the Royal Belgian and Dutch Zoological Societies.
symposium.
7 weeks until the American Genetic Association Presidents Symposium, Local adaptation: from phenotype to
The goal of this Symposium is to bring together researchers from academia, government, and private business to communicate about key challenges and ideas,
this symposium, however participation is limited so regIn the past, many studies dealt only with pheno- istration is required. Participants will be notified by
Symposium proceedings will be published within a dedicated PeerJ Collection and the best papers will be
*Open Source Geospatial Research & Education Symposium (OGRS) 2016* http://2016.ogrs-community.org
will feature invited thematic symposia as well as open
ESEB2017 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Hangzhou StudentTravelGrantsGenomicsSymposium
ESEB2017 CallSymposia
OF SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS*
18126d5367096956993c2acdb5dca4ea/symposium proposals are now open. Information about
www.instrumentl.com/summer-marinegrants?utm source=summermarine615&utm medium=- the symposia can be found at http://www.eseb2017.nl/
. Symposium proposals should be proposed via http:/email&utm campaign=aess >
/www.eseb2017.nl/scientific-programme/symposium/
(2) The proposed symposium title.
Hangzhou StudentTravelGrantsGenomicsSymposium
andsymposium organizers would like to encourage
from countries not yet representedin the symposium.
KIZ, China. Symposiumco-organizers are: JingChe,
Symposiumsummary: Genomicstouches nearly all aspects of evolutionary and organismal biology,and allows
ate students orpostdoctoral students interested in presenting at talk at the symposium“Amphibian & Reptile Studentsinterested in applying for travel support may
The goal of this Symposium is to bring together researchers from academia, government, and private business to communicate about key challenges and ideas,
For more information visit: https://qubeshub.org/- Centre for Genomic Regulation Symposium that will
this symposium, however participation is limited so This open meeting will provide a unique opportunity
and can be done through the CRG Symposium website
Timing and Location of the Meeting: The Symposium We look forward to your participation!
Abstract submission: Symposium Organisers invite the Contact
biologia Facultat de Biociencies, Edifici C Universia short talk during the CRG 2016 Symposium
www.crg.eu/en/content/events/15th-crg-symposiumAlfredo Ruı́z Panadero <Alfredo.Ruiz@uab.cat>
September 21 - 23, 2016: This symposium will cover
Watch our website - http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/2016.html - for more details.
logical Genomics Symposium on October 28-30, 2016, in The Lake Arrowhead 2016 meeting will have a major
symposium will convene on Friday evening and conclude pathogens, and genome evolution. The field of genomics
128&catid%6&prodid=1400 Event website: http://ceesymposium2016.weebly.com/ Twitter updates:
Registration for 2016 CEE (Centre for Ecology & Evolution - https://www.ucl.ac.uk/cee) Summer Symposium
Manchester’s Molecular and Genome Evolution Symposium (#MaGE2016) on Monday 20th June!
The remit of the symposium is broad, including all
the drinks reception following the symposium.
On behalf of the CEE Summer Symposium organisation
goo.gl/forms/8oLPE02L9Y This small symposium will
announce that the interdisciplinary symposium ’NETWORKS IN BIOLOGY’ will take place October, 12th13th 2016 at the Georg-August-University Göttingen,
main aim of the ’NETWORKS IN BIOLOGY’ symposium is to bring researchers of different research fields The 14th RECOMB-CG conference will be held in Montogether to reveal commonalities of different biological treal, Canada, October 11-14 2016. With this Call for
The aim of the 2016 Villars Symposium on “Non-coding
Symposium on Non-coding RNAs: Function and Evolution
Genetic Association PresidentÂs Symposium, “Local
The American Genetic Association President’s Symposium, ’Local adaptation: from phenotype to genotype
type of session that differ from the traditional symposia at these meetings.
addition to the standard sessions and symposia, this year
will present their papers during a day-long symposium
about symposia topics (hopefully one about evolution
The meeting will incorporate three symposia:
Unlike most congresses and symposium, NO CHARGE
undergraduate students are encouraged to present origiThe costs, including the conference fee, accommodation and full board will be 1200 Swiss francs (CHF). In nal research during the student research symposium on
the 2016 Ecological Integration Symposium!
The 2016 Ecological Integration Symposium Committee
invites you to attend the* 17th Annual Texas A&M University Ecological Integration Symposium *on *March
University - College Station*. The Ecological Integration Symposium is an interdisciplinary, graduate student
2016 Ecological Integration Symposium Committee
Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Symposium (Abstract Submission Deadline Approaching)
for Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Symposium
The annual Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics Symposium (EGGS) will take place on Tuesday 15th March
Career Scientist Symposium,* Frontiers in Community
Michigan, Ann Arbor. The symposium will focus on the
2016 Early Career Scientists Symposium organizing com- (regular and flash) and poster sessions, covering the state
http://www.embo-embl-symposia.org/symposia/2016/EES16-01/index.html
Symposium 2016 on aquatic microeukaryotes!
symposium.
Registration is open for the SciLifeLab mini-symposium:
This mini-symposium will be held in Stockholm on
symposium-ancient-envi ronmental-dna/
The organizers of the symposium have arranged with
symposium as special issues.
The 3nd Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium
TheAmerican Genetic Association President’s Symposium, ’Local adaptation: from phenotype to genotype
Reminder: Travel Award - Undergraduate Diversity at We are pleased to announce a symposium on Genomics
mation at http://beacon-center.org/ude/ Details: For symposium will be paired with a Software Carpentry
present a poster at the meetings, (2) receive mentoring analyze such datasets. The symposium and accompanyfrom graduate students, postdocs and faculty, and (3) ing workshop are jointly funded by the American Genetic
and symposium. Space in the workshop is limited, and
We would like to invite you to join a symposium on
Invited speakers of the symposium are Christina WarinMarine Microbes GRS Microbe Coexistence and Coevo- ner (University of Oklahoma) and Wolfgang Haak (MPIlution in a Changing Ocean
The Gordon Research Seminar on Marine Microbes is Symposium description:
symposium we aim to address how the latest sequencing
We are pleased to announce the symposium “Structural variation in the light of new sequencing technologies” as part of the July 2016 SMBE meeting in Gold
inaugural State of the World’s Plants Symposium: 11-12
International Symposium on Testate Amoebae, during m.tanimoto@kew.org
the days of September 12-15th, in Ilhabela, São Paulo, www.kew.org State of the World’s Plants Symposium
The Symposium is promoted every two years by the
A very special feature of this symposium is the firstever, ISOP (International Society of Protistologists)
available at the symposium website.
Registration for 2016 CEE (Centre for Ecology & Evolution) Summer symposium 2016 entitled: “War and
conference, and present posters as well. This symposium particularly keen to give PhD students and post-docs a
To attend and/or submit a talk or if you have any further the drinks reception following the symposium.
On behalf of the CEE Summer Symposium organisation
Event website: http://ceesymposium2016.weebly.com
[7356472.jpg?1458915307] CEE Summer Symposium
2016 ceesymposium2016.weebly.com The 2016 CEE
(Centre for Ecology & Evolution) Summer Symposium
The remit of the symposium is broad, including all
- Symposium “Proteomics”
- Symposium “Neuroinformatics”
- Symposium “Human genetics”
- Symposium “Mathematical modeling and high performance computing in bioinformatics, biomedicine and *Open computational landscape genetics* session
school-3/?lang=en - Sino-Russian Symposium on Stéphane Joost, Solange Duruz
Symposium proceedings will be published within a dedicated PeerJ Collection and the best papers will be
ESEB2017 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
SSE 2017 SymposiumProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
to $1,500 reimbursement to attend the AGA Symposium, and an AGA membership and subscription to
ESEB2017 CallSymposia
OF SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS*
symposium proposals are now open. Information about not limited to, short workshops (for instance, on unconthe symposia can be found at http://www.eseb2017.nl/ scious bias) and/or seminars (with invited speakers) at
. Symposium proposals should be proposed via http:/- your home organization, data collection, data collection
/www.eseb2017.nl/scientific-programme/symposium/ and publication activities and similar events. It must
(2) The proposed symposium title.
http://www.news.cornell.edu/stories/2016/04/evolutionary-biologist-rick-harrison-dies-70 A symposium was held in 2010 to celebrate the contributions
to an article from this symposium that gives a summary
SSE 2017 SymposiumProposals
the species found on the list. Please find the Fellowship Call for Symposia for the 2017 Annual Meeting
conservation initiative focusing specifically on threat- symposia to be held in conjunction with the meeting.
ened species that represent a significant amount of Symposium proposals should include: (1) a synopsis of
unique evolutionary history. One of the most effec- the symposium theme (about one page); (2) a tentative
the future of EDGE species is by awarding two-year Fel- topics; (3) a rationale for the symposium explaining why
working on poorly-known EDGE mammal, amphibian, appropriate for a Society- sponsored symposium; and
cations for the 2017-19 Fellowship Programme. EDGE contacted and agree to participate in the symposium.
Symposium organizers are expected to take into account
ditionally underrepresented in Society symposia when
recent Society symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day symposia at the annual meeting in June 2016. All applicants
Society provides travel support for organizers and participants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on
PDF format (under subject heading: SSE Symposia
sights from some subset of the STEAM disciplines to and symposia.
Berlin EvolutionAndMedicineSymposium Nov10 . . . . 3
EvolutionAndMedicineSymposium
This symposium will showcase new ideas and discovFor people coming by plane,
We are pleased to announce that a symposium on the The event will be hosted at the Museum national
The aim of the symposium is to bring together a multi- researchers in natural history from around the world
as highlight future avenues of research. The symposium
There are 50 spots available for the symposium.
to a symposium where some of the world’s leading
who are leading the charge in applying genomic techRegistration is now open for the Symposium on the nologies to understand all of life. The conference will
SMBE2017 CallSymposia Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
the Young Investigator’s Symposium at the ASN annual
Frederick “Erick” Matsen, Associate Member New Phytologist Symposia 2017 Trait covariation //
SMBE2017 CallSymposia Reminder
SMBE 2017 | Call for Symposia Reminder
Thanks to all those that have submitted their symposia
you to please complete and submit the call for symposia
for Symposia Details
Austin Texas SMBE Jul2-6 CallForSymposia . . . . . . . 3
LundU SwedishOikos2017 Feb7-9 CallSatelliteSymposia
CallForSymposia
SMBE 2017 | Call for Symposia
symposium topics for the 2017 Annual Meeting, taking
accepted symposium we provide substantial financial
support to facilitate symposia organizers in attracting
per symposium). To submit your proposal please click
on http://www.smbe2017.org/call-for-symposia and follow the instructions. Please complete and submit the
Call for Symposia Details ...
sions for minisymposia. Submissions should be no more
2016 - Submission deadline for minisymposia including
SUBMIT YOUR MINISYMPOSIUM
CALL FOR MINISYMPOSIA
minisymposia.
, http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/2016.html .
14th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium October 28-30, 2016 Kansas City Country Club Plaza Symposium website: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/2016.html This year marks the 14th anniversary
of the Ecological Genomics Symposium. We have put
together an outstanding lineup of ten speakers. Symposium details can be found at http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/2016.html. The meeting will convene at
http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/2016registration.html. You may also register to attend
line are at: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/- September 30! Don’t miss your opportunity to attend
14th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium OctoVENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas ber 28-30, 2016 Kansas City Country Club Plaza SymCity Marriott on the beautiful Country Club Plaza in posium website: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/Kansas City, Missouri. Reserve your hotel room online 2016/2016.html This year marks the 14th anniversary
by visiting the Symposium website. Deadline: October of the Ecological Genomics Symposium. We have put
together an outstanding lineup of ten speakers. Symposium details can be found at http://ecogen.k-state.edu/FEATURED SPEAKERS:
symposia/2016/2016.html. The meeting will convene at
http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/§Christian Landry, Département de biologie, Université at:
WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTA§Kenneth M. Olsen, Washington University in St. Louis TIONS. Instructions for submitting your abstract online are at: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/§Amy Toth, Iowa State University
DEADLINES: Friday, 9/16 Early Registration at disVENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
by visiting the Symposium website. Deadline: October
state.edu/symposia/2016/2016.html,
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas
our website, http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/65 Viikinkaari 1 00790 Helsinki Finland
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas E-mail:
Devo Symposium, which will take place on 9th-11th
ular Ecology and Evolution Symposium will be held at
the Lammi Biological Station in Finland between the The Neptune Evo Devo Symposium is organized by the
social program for this Symposium is now posted.
The Symposium is a student friendly event. Registration nervous system and evolution of body plans. In line
to identify evolutionary causes and effects of population This symposium aims to attract enthusiastic, internaresponses to climatic and other anthropogenic changes tional scientists, as well as to foster interactions between
or poster sessions) and to exchange with leading reThe online abstracts submission for the symposium is searchers.
Symposium: Finnish Molecular Ecology and Evolution
CallSatelliteSymposia
Call for the submission of satellite symposium and work- September 26-29 2017
<pierre.pontarotti@univorganize satellite symposia and workshops. This would
http://oikos2017.event.lu.se/programme/satellitesymposia Deadline for the submission is the 7th of
We are pleased to announce that a symposium on the
The aim of the symposium is to bring together a multidisciplinary group of scientists working on the ecology,
as highlight future avenues of research. The symposium
symposia devoted to different fields within the interface
sessions and symposiums scheduled is already available.
Symposium on Insect-Plant interactions (SIP2017) will
Registration is now open for the Symposium on the
to a symposium where some of the world’s leading
Please join us for a two day symposium honoring the
Symposium speakers include: Bruce Grant, Grey Mayer,
For more information about the symposium:
versity Genomics Conference in Washington, D.C. FebruI International Symposium on Advances in Mussel Re- ary 21-23, 2017 at the Smithsonian’s National Museum
This symposium aims to highlight the latest research emphasis on human genomics to one on global biodiveron marine mussels (Mytilus spp.) from a multidisci- sity genomics, as investigations in this arena are rapidly
and ecological questions and the genomics of broad taxThe symposium will include 7 talks from the invited onomic groups (e.g. plants, vertebrates, invertebrates,
posals, and contribute to outreach and public symposia,
Austin Texas SMBE Jul2-6 CallForSymposia . . . . . . . 2
CallForSymposia
SMBE 2017 | Call for Symposia
symposium topics for the 2017 Annual Meeting, taking
accepted symposium we provide substantial financial
support to facilitate symposia organizers in attracting
per symposium). To submit your proposal please click
on http://www.smbe2017.org/call-for-symposia and follow the instructions. Please complete and submit the
Call for Symposia Details ...
We are pleased to announce a symposium on the Genetics of Adaptation.
Symposium dates: 28 November to 2 December 2016
ing lunches and all tea/coffee breaks, and the opportu“Genetics of Adaptation Symposium 2016, NCBS” nity to tour the CU Botanic Garden and/or herbarium.
September 21 - 23, 2016: This symposium will cover
14th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium OctoPrimates” * Alexandra Rosati: “The ecology and evo- ber 28-30, 2016 Kansas City Country Club Plaza Symlution of primate spatial memory” * Jeffrey Rogers: posium website: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/“Decoding mouse lemurs: DNA sequencing,
comparative genomics and the remarkable biology of an of the Ecological Genomics Symposium. We have put
emerging research model” * Fabien Pifferi: “The mouse together an outstanding lineup of ten speakers. Symposium details can be found at http://ecogen.k-state.edu/lemur as a model for
symposia/2016/2016.html. The meeting will convene at
http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/Afternoon Session: Conservation & Biogeography * Alex at:
WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTATIONS. Instructions for submitting your abstract online are at: http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/2016abstract.html .DEADLINE to be considered for oral
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
by visiting the Symposium website. Deadline: October
social program for this Symposium is now posted.
The Symposium is a student friendly event. Registration
The online abstracts submission for the symposium is
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION will be posted on Dr. Anne Duplouy Postdoctoral Researcher The Uniour website, http://ecogen.k-state.edu/symposia/2016/- versity of Helsinki Metapopulation Research Centre PL
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas E-mail:
Symposium: Finnish Molecular Ecology and Evolution
We are pleased to announce that the 2nd Finnish Molecular Ecology and Evolution Symposium will be held at
Symposium webpage, containing instructions how to
Symposium: Investigating ecological and evolutionary
This symposium is part of the XIV MEDECOS & XIII
Comwell [http://www.comwellaarhus.dk/] in central the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list of
tification for the symposium explaining why the topic
heading: ASN Asilomar Symposium Proposal. ProposWe would appreciate if you could circulate this announce- als that include women, young investigators and individuals from underrepresented groups are especially
nior participants in symposia. Regardless, there may be
opportunities to seek external symposium funding.
and on it being substantively different from recent symposia hosted by the Society. All applicants will be
Call for Symposia
ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Two symposia will be chosen for this meeting, to run
on separate days, in addition to a special symposium
anniversary symposium are being solicited separately.
Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal
symposium at the stand-alone meeting of the American
CA, USA). The symposium is titled “On the shoulders
goal of the symposium will be to show how major advances published in the journal’s history have laid the
workshops (which are research focused and equip stuInaddition to this symposium, the American Society dents with skills required for conservation), plenary
and speakers for two other organized symposia at the about 80 student poster presentations. Read the 2016
We organize a 2-day symposium on ”Crustacean Genomics“ within the TCS congress in Barcelona this
The symposium will include talks on the use of Genomics in Physiology (19th June 2017) and Systematics
Guiomar Rotllant & Ferran Palero Organizing committee of the Crustacea genomics symposium”
Dr. Oliver Otti Animal Population Ecology Animal Chicago Plant Science Symposium 2017 The Field MuEcology I University of Bayreuth Universitätsstrasse 30 seum *Saturday April 8, 2017 * *10:00 AM - 7:00 PM*
oliver.otti@uni- annual Chicago Plant Science Symposium. This series
web: Otti’s homepage < http://www.bayceer.uni- of the greater Chicago area for a one day symposium
http://rolffevolution.net/ecological-immunologyThe theme of the symposium this year is *“Genomic
and/or under-studied. This symposium will highlight
SYMPOSIA ANNOUNCEMENT 50th Annual Meeting, Q&A. Posters should not be larger than 40 x 30 inches.
The ’Genomics, Epigenetics and Gene Regulation Symposium’ at the University of Essex aims to gather researchers to present their work on this fast growing
field. This one-day symposium on the 14th of September will cover DNA-based regulation (chromatin and
5th Annual Science by the Shore Symposium (formally
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/
and covers breakfast, lunch, dinner, and fun symposium craig.20@nd.edu Mary Ann McDowell, mcdowgiveaways. The deadline to register is May 6th, but ell.11@nd.edu
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ > and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop < http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annualarthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ > and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop < http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annualarthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
wish to be considered for a General Session Platform FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THIS SYMPOSIUM,
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) in- of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/vites you to attend the following joint symposium (with home.htm rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
MAIN SYMPOSIUM: “Ecomorphology & Diversity”
Adaptation.html Symposium on the “Genomics of
Switzerland http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/en/events/symposium.html Informal inquiries may be addressed
A Summer School and a Symposium will take place
Small symposia, workshops and courses in various formats can perform functions complementary to those of The principal criterion for selection of an STN will be its
the postdoctoral fellow will be expected to lead a seminar, symposium or outreach project that will appeal
Adaptation.html Symposium on the “Genomics of
Switzerland http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/en/events/symposium.html Informal inquiries may be addressed
A Summer School and a Symposium will take place
International Symposium “Speciation in Ancient Lakes
a two-day symposium at Temple University in Philadelsession we hope that you will consider submitting an
symposium, where we will highlight the impact of molec- that span a diversity of disciplinary approaches and inular evolutionary studies on the understanding, diag- cluding presenters from neontological backgrounds who
We are now planning the next AGA President’s Symposium, to be held at the Hawaii Preparatory Academy in
AGA symposia focus on a single topic and last for 2-3
Each year, AGA symposia bring together 80-100 partic- http://www.theaga.org . CONFIRMED SPEAKERS:
SMBE 2017 Symposium “Systems approaches to behavior”
We welcome abstract submissions for a symposium on
Austin, TX. The symposium will feature talks by Lauren O’Connell (Harvard University) and Hans Hofmann
Symposium summary: Understanding the diversity of
individuals via social interactions. The goal of our symposium is to bring together researchers working at the
symposium will be timely because high-dimensional “omics” data, representing functional information at multiple biological scales, is rapidly becoming available; but
unclear. Our symposium will contribute to building an
speakers and symposium topics.
SMBE 2017 Symposium “Convergent evolution”
We are pleased to announce a symposium on “Convergent evolution” at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas, this
and due on 1 February 2017. Please use the following link for submission: http://www.smbe2017.org/- SMBE 2017 Symposium “Epigenetics and Evolution”
We are pleased to announce a symposium on “Epigenetprior to registration for the conference.
Symposium description:
has demonstrated the extent of convergence in a wide Symposium description:
the sequence level from chance events. This symposium and important over time. In this symposium, we seek
– Alexandros Bousios, PhD Marie-Curie Research Fellow in controlled environments, this symposium aims to
cellular pathways, gene-regulatory sub-networks and geSMBE 2017 Symposium: Evolutionary Systems Biology netic subsystems - Mechanisms for evolving novel cell
of Cells Please join us for an exciting symposium ad- types - Methods that help study the above
Symposium organizers —–
2017. Symposium is on July 3rd.
The symposium program will also be published at:
sion website is here: https://b-com.mci-group.com/Symposium Description —–
Cells are the basic units of life. Decades of research the symposium below:
compare definitions and questions. This symposium will
Symposium description:
Professor Department of Integrative Biology Chair, symposium, we aim at bringing together empiricists and
SMBE 2017 Symposium “Integrating Ancient and ModInstitute of Ecology and Evolution University of Bern
We are pleased to announce a symposium on “Integrating Ancient and Modern DNA” at SMBE 2017 in simon.aeschbacher@iee.unibe.ch
SMBE 2017 Symposium “Symbiosis and Interactions”
At SMBE in Austin this July, there will be a symposium on Host-Parasite Coevolution, featuring invited
submissions for talks or posters for the symposium are
the symposium below:
We are accepting abstracts for our symposium on “Symbiosis and Interactions” at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas,
from July 2-6. The symposium features invited speakers
Symposium summary: Symbiotic interactions between
reproductive isolation, thus promoting biological diversification. This symposium highlights work examining
the evolutionary trajectory of these lineages. This symposium provides a central opportunity for integrating
compare definitions and questions. This symposium will
http://www.intecol2017.org/en/index.asp Symposium
present. This symposium synthesise research from on
attend our upcoming symposium on
This symposium intends to bring together ecologists,
participants of this symposium are encouraged to
symposium ’Wildfire Ecology and Life Evolution:
1 2017. This invitation is extended to anyone, including those are not able attend the symposium, wish to
https://small-rnapathways.eventbrite.co.uk This one-day symposium
I think this symposium will be of interest to some of
-Which symposium you would prefer to be assigned
BiosystEU2017/speakers-and-symposia.html Please
The meeting will feature half-day symposia held by member societies of BioSyst.EU and external organisations
We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and attend our ESEB2017 symposium [S5] on “*Evolutionary
The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of
Gothenburg, where we will organize a half-day symposium on “DNA-barcoding and the future of biodiversity
To submit abstracts online, please go to: http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Ageing is an almost ubiquitous feature of
this symposium is to address the integration of function
this symposium we would like to bring together diverse
ESEB2017 symposium [S28] on “Intragenomic conflicts
The symposium will take place at the XVI Congress of
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: This symposium is University of A Corun̄a RÃo¯a da Fraga 10 (Campus
attend our ESEB2017 symposium [S21] on “Genetic exchange in microbial adaptation and infectious diseaseÂ2 .
The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of
www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Horizontal gene transfer (genetic exchange) plays a key role in microbial evolution. New
example, antibiotic resistance alleles and virulence factors are often encoded on mobile elements such as plasmids. This symposium aims to bridge the gap between
this will make an exciting ESEB symposium because genetic exchange is a highly active field among theoretical
upcoming symposium on the Genomics of Adaptation
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Genomics of Adaptation [S16] Model organisms for life-history research are
In this symposium, we focus on integrating life-history
look forward to an exciting symposium and seeing you
ESEB2017 symposium [S12] on “Environmental effects
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s12-environmental-effectson-sexual/ The symposium will take place at the 16th
SYMPOSIUM
biology meeting at Marseilles ( September 26-29 2017) We welcome contributed talks in our symposium “Morphological Lazarisation: when new technology brings life
and networks to submit content for the symposium we would be delighted to have other researchers, at any
related to the symposium, the deadline for submissions
a symposium, “Molluscan Colour and Vision” to be
kingdom. In this symposium speakers will cover a range
international symposium on the biology of symbiosis.
please visit the conference website at https://§Symbiosis in our environment and within several species symposium.inra.fr/holobiont-paris2017/ .Please, do not
Symposium announcement page:
http://www.ibps.upmc.fr/en/newsevents/events/ibps-symposium-symbiosis
Spotlight Symposium - Evolution Portland 2017
I am organizing a special Spotlight Symposium for this
uary 31, 2017 to indicate your interest in the symposium
searchers for a 5-minute talk in a “Spotlight Symposium”
Being part of this symposium can highlight your work focused session with the right target audience and other
for this new type of symposium at an awesome meeting My topic idea is “Sex in the Wild”, which will focus
cannot compensate your expenses for participating in of reproductive mode polymorphism in non-model orthis symposium.
on sex chromosomes. In this symposium we address
*Symposium and Workshop on Ecology and Evolution
The *symposium* will be held on *April 24 and 25,
announce an International Symposium covering many
*Symposium and Workshop on Ecology and Evolution
We believe that both the symposium and workshop will
Consider checking out the symposium ’Evolutionary Impacts of Seasonality’, which showcases some excellent Prof. Dr. Klaus Fischer Zoological Institute & Museum
symposium.
International Symposium where we will bring together
ESEB Symposium on “EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS”
the ESEB symposium
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Biological clocks are
their target clock molecules. Our symposium will be
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Submit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-forabstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Exploitation strategies are at the core of consumer-resource
This symposium aims to bring together empiricists and
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Bram Knegt (University
ESEB Symposium on “ Coevolution in antagonistic
Please be invited to the ESEB symposium
Abstract submission is open for our symposium: “[S22]
attend our upcoming symposium on
Symposium description
mechanistic, empirical and theoretical insights into ecoevolutionary feedback loops. In this way, the symposium will aim to advance conceptual understanding of
contribute to the symposium.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstractguidelines-/ *Symposium information*: Network
to name only a few. This symposium will bring together
Abstract submission is open for our symposium: “*S3:
Dear Colleagues, We would like to invite you to symposium [S15] “Experimental evolution in complex environments” that will take place at the 16th Congress of the
this symposium is to bring together empirical and theoretical contributions that aim to understand the impact
welcoming you at the conference and our symposium.
across multiple generations, again with complex implications. Wish this symposium we hope to encourage
The symposium will showcase recent advances in understanding variation in fitness, and resulting evolution, in
http://www.eseb2017.nl/ http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s9-fitness-and-evolution-in-a-socia/ Symposium
Abstract submission is open for our symposium: ’[S19]
to submit an abstract to our symposium on “FitGroningen, Netherlands, 20-25th August, 2017. *
molecular evolutionary biology. This symposium aims to microbial evolution experiments to study how gene
our symposium will stimulate and direct future studies post-transcriptional level, or the evolution of protein
Organizers: Santiago Elena, Inês Fragata, Sebastian This symposium will bring together researchers that
an exciting symposium and seeing you all in Groningen!
upcoming symposium on the Genomics of Adaptation
ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON THE MUTUALIST25th, 2017 in Groningen, the Netherlands.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Genomics of Adaptation [S16] Model organisms for life-history research are Dear colleagues:
assessable. In general, however, knowledge about their attend the ESEB symposium
are now providing access to putatively adaptive genome- SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
In this symposium, we focus on integrating life-history Symbioses, and other close-knit species relationships, are
in the last few years. This symposium will bring toABSTRACT SUBMISSION The deadline for abstract gether researchers studying the evolution of parasitism
and use natural systems while combining genomics and attend the ESEB symposium
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: It is now well known
by transposable elements remain unclear. This symposium will bring together theoreticians and empiricists
and non-genetic inheritance and their impact on evolutionary dynamics. http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s20evolutionary-implications-of-tra/ SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Josefa Gonzalez (Institute of Evolutionary Biology, CSIC-UPF, Spain) Willian Silva (Uppsala
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Sébastien Lion (CÃFÃ,
ESEB Symposium on “PARASITE EVOLUTION IN
ESEB symposium [S1] Parasite evolution in response
and attend the symposium:
State University) Sebastian Bonhoeffer (ETH Zürich) http://www.eseb2017.nl/ http://www.eseb2017.nl/SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Parasites evolve in re- sub/s30-phylogenetics-in-the-genomic-er/ INVITED
symposium will highlight work that seeks to generate
challenges of species tree estimation in a symposium
remain under-used. The goal of this symposium is to
symposium exploring the causes and consequences of
[S23] symposium entitled Rapid Evolution Revisited.
[S17] Evolutionary causes and consequences of variaThe symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of tion in recombination rate http://www.eseb2017.nl/the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), sub/s17-evolutionary-causes-and-consequ/ INVITED
SPEAKERS: Abraham Korol, University of Haifa, IsThe deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. rael. (http://evolution.haifa.ac.il/index.php/people/SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Times are changing, 203-abraham-korol-ph-d) Irene Tiemann-Boege, Jo(http://and our studies in evolutionary biology must change hannes Kelper University, Germany.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Recombination is paradoxical, it can create novel genetic combinations that
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Submit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/callfor-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Susan Johnston, University of Edinburgh (https://susanejohnston.wordpress.com/) Anna Santure, University of Aukland (https://unidirectory.auckland.ac.nz/profile/a-santure) Jessica Stapley, ETH Zurich (http://jessicastapley.com/)
we are delighted to invite submissions to our symposium
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
ESEB Symposium on “Spatial Evolution”
our symposium [S25] on ’Spatial Evolution’ at the 16th
Submit abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/ SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
of disease. Our symposium provides a platform for biologists studying evolution in a spatial context. We invite
on Jan 5 and 6, 2017, for a two-day Californian Experimental Evolution Symposium on UCSD campus in La
The 2017 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientific
an exciting international symposium about the ecology Andrea Hodgins-Davis <andreahd@umich.edu>
symposium events will take place from 10-12th of March
evolution related to phenotypic plasticity. This symposium will highlight the work of up-and-coming scientists
symposium on the topic “Plant epigenetics: from mechanisms to ecological relevance” to be held in Vienna,
ity to give a compelling talk, the nominee’s curriculum this end, this symposium focuses on interdisciplinary disvitae, and a brief abstract of the proposed presentation cussion and aims to foster cooperation among research
may be sent electronically (in one file, please) to eeb- The symposium format will include six non-concurrent
Early Career Scientist Symposia held in past years can regulation of plant phenotypes Session 3: Transgen-
symposium. We hope that this will stimulate focused
poster sessions. As the symposium benefits from generous support from New Phytologist and the symposium
For full details and to register, please visit https://www.newphytologist.org/symposia/40 Dr Ovidiu Paun
symposium.
talk in person, you can also see related work in the symposium “Evolutionary Impacts of Seasonality” (http://www.sicb.org/meetings/2017/symposia/seasonal.php).
The recruitment symposium will take place in Leipzig
Shenzhen 1stAsiaEvoConf Apr18-20 CallForSymposia 9
Symposium on Animal Development and its Evolutionary Variation 17th - 18th September 2017 Department
September there will be a day long scientific symposium
held at the Department of Zoology. The symposium will
and-events/department-of-zoology/symposium-on(Cardiff, UK)
Symposium “Applying genomic-scale approaches to the traves de las diferentes etapas de un proyecto de investigacion, los cuales incluyen metodos adecuados de
The symposium will include work on phylogenetics, en- Jeff Streicher Herpetology Division, Natural History
Symposium
Symposium organisers:
CallForSymposia
We are inviting proposals for symposia for the 1st Asian
on Recent Advances in Biological Sciences, 14-16^th The selected symposia will receive substantial financial
The symposium submission deadline is August 15th,
Almerı́a is also glad to announce the 2nd Symposium on
The second annual Symposium will take place on
Symposium has a limited capacity of students.
discussant for SSB Standalone meeting (2015), SSB symposium organizer (2012). Other: Associate Editor for
symposia, and contributed to pre-meeting workshops
Galway Ireland EvoDevo 2018 CallForSymposia . . . . 6
Biodiversity & Health Symposium Conference on Southeast Asian Gateway Evolution (sage2017.org) 28 August
We invite contributions to the symposium “Biodiversity
Symposium: Biodiversity and Health Organizers:
of this symposium is to bring together researchers who
symposium hosted by Senckenberg Biodiversity and Cliresolved!
and other methods, are most appropriate in the near future? This symposium aims at bringing together leading
CallForSymposia
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA
The Scientific Committee of the EED invites proposals for symposia for the Galway Conference. It is the
The Deadline for Symposia is 1 September 2017.
< http://www.evodevo2018.eu/ehome/evodevo2018/Callforsymposia/ >
The meeting will feature one whole-day and eleven halfday symposia held by member societies of BioSyst.EU
EMPSEB provides a platform for PhD students studyWe invite you to a two-day symposium at Temple Uni- ing Evolutionary Biology to present their work and to
Gene Regulation Symposium’ is now OPEN. The meeting is being primarily sponsored by the Genetics Society
The ’Genomics, Epigenetics and Gene Regulation Symposium’ at the University of Essex aims to gather researchers to present their work on this fast growing
field. This one-day symposium on the 14th of September will cover DNA-based regulation (chromatin and
In this symposium we want to discuss various reasons
2017 we organise a symposium on the “Identification
The symposium coalescence, and supermatrix debate you are invited
biological data. Molecular data for phylogenetic tree registration, submission procedures, symposia and their
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ > and Arthropod Bioinformatics
arthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
SYMPOSIUM
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/
symposium.html INVITED SPEAKERS and tentative
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ > and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop < http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annualarthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/
with three workshops, three symposia, and two plenary dorm housing. Reservations should be made before
Broader Impacts, and writing an effective DDIG pro- hotels. Check out the meeting travel page (http://posal. Symposia will include current topics in Climate www.mammalmeetings.org/travel/) for more informaChange, Large Mammal Ecophysiology, and Genomics. tion!
Symposium!
REGISTER FOR THE CONFERENCE Registration Each year, AGA symposia bring together 80-100 particis now open for ASM 2017! Register online (https://- ipants in a relaxed and collegial setting to share ideas
New Phytologist Symposia 2017 Trait covariation //
for oral or poster presentation, without distinction beYou can find a preliminary list of the scientific symposia
(included but not limited to) at http://www.icim4.com/Accepted papers and extended abstracts will be pub- symposia-structure to be chosen according to your inlished by MIT Press as open-access electronic proceed- terests.
symposium.inra.fr/holobiont-paris2017/ .Please, do not
Wildlife 70: a symposium on long-term research.
Please distribute this announcement (http://- The symposium will be held during 1-4 May 2017 in Pemlbs.virginia.edu/Walton2017) to students or colleagues terborough, Ontario. The co-hosts are Trent University,
Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry. The symposium is about the importance of long-term ecological
- Genetics Society of America Trainee-Organized Symposia
Subject: JoeFest: Satellite symposium at the 2017
A one-day symposium will be held on Thursday, June 22,
Special Symposium entitled ’Optimizing connectivity
This symposium will explore the problems posed by
presenting a talk or poster at the Symposium, you need
Symposium conveners,
present their talks in the Mayr symposium during the
Award symposium. The Mayr symposium will be held
To apply, please e-mail the following application ma- symposium.
Comwell [http://www.comwellaarhus.dk/] in central the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list of
tification for the symposium explaining why the topic
heading: ASN Asilomar Symposium Proposal. ProposWe would appreciate if you could circulate this announce- als that include women, young investigators and individuals from underrepresented groups are especially
nior participants in symposia. Regardless, there may be
opportunities to seek external symposium funding.
and on it being substantively different from recent symposia hosted by the Society. All applicants will be
Call for Symposia
ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Two symposia will be chosen for this meeting, to run
on separate days, in addition to a special symposium
anniversary symposium are being solicited separately.
Symposium topics should support the Society’s goal
symposium at the stand-alone meeting of the American
CA, USA). The symposium is titled “On the shoulders
goal of the symposium will be to show how major advances published in the journal’s history have laid the
workshops (which are research focused and equip stuInaddition to this symposium, the American Society dents with skills required for conservation), plenary
and speakers for two other organized symposia at the about 80 student poster presentations. Read the 2016
We organize a 2-day symposium on ”Crustacean Genomics“ within the TCS congress in Barcelona this
The symposium will include talks on the use of Genomics in Physiology (19th June 2017) and Systematics
Guiomar Rotllant & Ferran Palero Organizing committee of the Crustacea genomics symposium”
Dr. Oliver Otti Animal Population Ecology Animal Chicago Plant Science Symposium 2017 The Field MuEcology I University of Bayreuth Universitätsstrasse 30 seum *Saturday April 8, 2017 * *10:00 AM - 7:00 PM*
oliver.otti@uni- annual Chicago Plant Science Symposium. This series
web: Otti’s homepage < http://www.bayceer.uni- of the greater Chicago area for a one day symposium
http://rolffevolution.net/ecological-immunologyThe theme of the symposium this year is *“Genomic
and/or under-studied. This symposium will highlight
SYMPOSIA ANNOUNCEMENT 50th Annual Meeting, Q&A. Posters should not be larger than 40 x 30 inches.
The ’Genomics, Epigenetics and Gene Regulation Symposium’ at the University of Essex aims to gather researchers to present their work on this fast growing
field. This one-day symposium on the 14th of September will cover DNA-based regulation (chromatin and
5th Annual Science by the Shore Symposium (formally
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/
and covers breakfast, lunch, dinner, and fun symposium craig.20@nd.edu Mary Ann McDowell, mcdowgiveaways. The deadline to register is May 6th, but ell.11@nd.edu
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ > and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop < http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annualarthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
The 10th Arthropod Genomics Symposium <
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/ > and Arthropod Bioinformatics
Workshop < http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annualarthropod-genomics-symposium/vectorbase-workshop/
wish to be considered for a General Session Platform FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THIS SYMPOSIUM,
http://globalhealth.nd.edu/10th-annual-arthropodgenomics-symposium/
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) in- of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/vites you to attend the following joint symposium (with home.htm rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
MAIN SYMPOSIUM: “Ecomorphology & Diversity”
Adaptation.html Symposium on the “Genomics of
Switzerland http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/en/events/symposium.html Informal inquiries may be addressed
A Summer School and a Symposium will take place
Small symposia, workshops and courses in various formats can perform functions complementary to those of The principal criterion for selection of an STN will be its
the postdoctoral fellow will be expected to lead a seminar, symposium or outreach project that will appeal
Adaptation.html Symposium on the “Genomics of
Switzerland http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/en/events/symposium.html Informal inquiries may be addressed
A Summer School and a Symposium will take place
