16SrRNA gene metabarcoding workshop

Monday 3rd to Friday 7th April 2017 in Berlin, Germany

http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course8/

Instructor: Dr. Alexandre Barretto de Menezes

(http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t5/)

Overview:

The 16s rRNA gene has become the standard marker for prokaryote
phylogenetic analysis, and combined with high-throughput sequencing
technologies it is widely used to infer the structure and
composition of microbial communities. Due to the continuous
improvements in sequencing technologies and bioinformatics tools,
there is a wide choice of methods for sequencing and analysing 16S
rRNA gene assemblies. This workshop is designed to give students the
necessary background and practical experience of the strategies for
the analysis of the diversity and structure of prokaryote
communities, covering i) experimental design and primer choices; ii)
wet-lab and library preparation options; iii) sequence quality
control and analysis and iv) statistical analysis of microbial
community data. The many sequencing and analysis options will be
discussed, whereas a more in-depth tutorial using real sequence data
will provide an opportunity for the student to practice 16S rRNA
sequence analysis from raw sequence files to ecological
interpretation. Course material, such as presentation slides and
necessary model data, will be provided to the students.

Targeted audience and assumed background:

This workshop is intended for students and researchers interested in
microbial ecology but who are not yet very familiar with the
techniques involved.Choosing the appropriate primers, library
preparation kits, sequencing methodologies and bioinformatics
pipelines can be quite daunting to the uninitiated. This workshop
will allow researchers interested more confidence in their
methodology and analyses choices.The target audience include
students of animal or plant microbiomes as well as those studying
environmental microbial communities. It is assumed that the workshop
attendees are interested in performing 16S rRNA metabarcoding using
the Illumina MiSeq platform, although other sequencing technologies
will be discussed during the workshop.

Knowledge of Linuxand R or familiarity with working in the command
line will be helpful, but for those new to the area detailed
instructions will allowstudents to follow the workshop. Students
will need to have a computer running either onLinux or a Linux
virtual machine running on MacOX/Windows computers. Contact the
instructor at ademez@gmail.com if in doubt about computational
requirements.

Where:

Seminar room at Molecular Parasitology, Humboldt-Universitat zu
Berlin, Philippstr. 13, Haus 14, 10115 Berlin

Workshop structure:

The workshop will consist of both lectures and practical classes.
Background information will be provided to help workshop attendees
choose the appropriate experimental design, primers, sequencing
library preparation kits and to contextualise the bioinformatics and
statistical analysis methods. Practical tutorials will be conducted
on a step-by-step basis to guide the student from when receiving
data from a sequence provider to obtaining plots and tables
describing microbial community diversity, structure and
relationships to environmental variables or host data.

Session contents:

http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course8/curriculum8/

Session 1: the 16S rRNA gene

Session 2: sequencing experimental design and initial hands-on
exercises

Session 3:library preparation for MiSeq sequencing

Session 4: practical session on sequence analysis pipelines

Session 5: mothur tutorial

Session 6: alternative tutorial combining USEARCH and mothur

Session 7: QIIME and Ninja OPS

Session 8: using statistical tools provided in mothur and QIIME

Session 9: other analysis tools in R and Linux

Optional session 10: wrap up and questions

Further information:

The cost is 430 euros (VAT included) including refreshments and
course materials. We also offer an all-inclusive package at 695
euros(VAT included), including breakfast, lunch, dinner,
refreshments, accommodation, course and transfer from/to the main
city's airports.

Application deadline March3^rd, 2017.

Please feel free to contact us if you need any further information.

Other relevant courses offered by Physalia-courses:

1) Introduction to Python for biologists. 5-9 December
2016. http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course2/

2) GIS analysis with QGIS. 6-10 February
2017.http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course5/

3) Eukaryotic-metabarcoding. 20-24 February
2017. http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course4/

4) Scientific Writing: organization and motivation booster. 28-29
March 2017. http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course7/

--

Physalia-courses

info@physalia-courses.org
www.physalia-courses.org

@physacourses

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
Skype: carlo_pecoraro

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

