Course: "Scientific Writing: organization and motivation booster"
28-29 March 2017 in Berlin Germany
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course7/

Instructor: Dr. Andrea Sanchini
http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t7/

Overview
Scientific writing is hard. Young students have difficulties in writing
their articles or theses and at the same time carrying out their research
projects. Supervisors and Professors have difficulties to train younger
scientists in scientific writing. In addition, the standards for the
publication of research articles and other scientific documents are
increasing. This course is intended to be very pragmatic: we will
develop a set of how-to information for writing research articles and
for increasing writing productivity. The aim of this course is to give
to participants the knowledge and the tools to change and improve their
routine writing activities. At the end of the course the participants
will became more organized and motivated in scientific writing.

Teaching format
The instructor provides lectures and tips from own writing
experience. Participants will do writing exercises individually and in
groups in order to apply the knowledge acquired during the lectures. The
instructor provides also practical examples on how to use software useful
for scientific writing. There will be enough time to share feedback
and challenges in group discussions.  Preparing for the course During
the course, participants can draft part of their next writing project
(one to two pages). This project can be a research article or a thesis.
Therefore participants are asked to decide in advance which writing task
they want to do during the course.

Intended audience
The course is especially useful for PhD candidates of Natural, Life and
Social Sciences faculties at any stage of their PhD. The course is also
useful for young students such as Bachelor and Master Students of the
same faculties in order to make them already familiar with the process
of scientific writing. More experienced scientists and researchers can
also take advantage of the course, since they can improve their writing
skills and productivity.

Course Program

1st Day
Session 1: Challenges in scientific writing
In the first session of the course participants will get familiar with
the basic principles of scientific writing. The instructor will show the
common challenges and typical blocks regarding scientific writing. The
instructor will also show misconceptions about scientific writing and
wrong habits that lead to write slowly and to produce poor texts. The
participants will then learn about the different stages of the writing
process, and how to effectively organize their writing projects. At the
end of the session participants will also explore the most common causes
of unclear scientific writing.

Session 2: Structure of a research article
Here the instructor presents the main sections of a research
articles: Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, References and
Abstract. Particular importance will be given to the paragraph structure,
which can be used as basic writing unit of a research article. The
instructor will also present how to manage the flow of information in
scientific writing.

2nd Day
Session 3: Figures and Tables
In this session the instructor will explain how to effectively present the
scientific information in figures and tables in a clear and unambiguous
way. In addition, information on how to write figure and table legends
will also be provided.

Session 4: Writing productivity
Here the instructor shows the different types of writers and their
respective advantages and disadvantages for scientific writing. The
instructor will show several techniques, software and motivational tools
to increase the writing productivity and remove writers' blocks. The aim
is to show that writing productivity is a skill that can be learned and
mastered with discipline and commitment.

Session 5: Self- and team-management of the writing process
In the last session the instructor will focus on the management part
of scientific writing. Specifically the team work among co-authors and
supervisors, how to organize the time effectively in order to reach
the writing goals, how to plan the writing projects and how to increase
efficiency through self-assessment.


Further information:
The cost is 350 euros (VAT included) including refreshments and
course materials. We also offer an all-inclusive package at 460 euros
(VAT included), including breakfast, lunch, dinner, refreshments,
accommodation, course and transfer from/to the main city's airports.

Other relevant courses offered by Physalia-courses:

1) Introduction to Python for biologists. 5-9 December 2016. 
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course2/

2) GIS analysis with QGIS. 6-10 February 2017. 
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course5/

3) Eukaryotic-metabarcoding. 20-24 February 2017. 
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course4/

4) 16S rRNA gene Metabarcoding. 3-7 April 2017. 
http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course7/


Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: &#43;49 15771084054

Skype: carlo_pecoraro

 Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>
