Invitation: The Evolution of Medicine to Evolutionary Medicine -
Interdisciplinary Dialogue
https://iri-ls.hu-berlin.de/en/events/interdisciplinary-dialogue

Free and open to the public.
Private afternoon session for those with special interests or expertise.

Date: Nov. 10, 2016 (Thursday)
Time: 09:00 - 13:00
Venue: Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Department of Sport Sciences,
Building 11, Lecture Hall, Philippstr. 13, 10115 Berlin

This symposium will showcase new ideas and discoveries that use
evolutionary biology to solve problems in medicine and public health,
and encourage new connections between those with an interest in
evolutionary medicine. The conference will be at Humboldt-Universität
zu Berlin, co-sponsored by the adjacent Charité Hospital. Meeting
organizers include Randolph Nesse from Arizona State University, World
Health Summit President Detlev Ganten, Stefanie Scharf from the
Charité Hospital, and Peter Hammerstein from Humboldt-Universität zu
Berlin.

Program:

The morning session from 09:00 until 13:00 is free of charge and open
to the public, but advance registration is required. Please fill out
the brief registration form. The talks will be accessible and engaging
for interested members of the general public as well as scientists and
health professionals.

Confirmed speakers:

- John Baines (Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel):
Why evolutionary biology is important to biomedical research: lessons
from studying blood group-related genetic polymorphism
- Martin Brüne (Ruhr-Universität Bochum):
Evolutionarily-informed approaches to the understanding of psychiatric disorders
- Peter Hammerstein (Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin):
The evolutionary conflict between mother and offspring
- Joachim Kurtz (Westfälische Wilhelms-Universität Münster):
Host-parasite coevolution in the light of evolutionary medicine
- Tobias Lenz (Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology):
Evolutionary genomics of an optimal adaptive immune response
- Randolph Nesse (Arizona State University):
Evolutionary Medicine at 25: Ready for the clinic, but is the clinic
ready for it?
- Rainer Straub (Universitätsklinikum Regensburg):
Chronic inflammatory systemic diseases: An evolutionary trade-off
between acutely beneficial but chronically harmful programs

There will also be a private afternoon session from 14:00 until 18:00
at which a group of up to 20 scientists and clinicians with a special
interest or expertise in evolutionary medicine will discuss more
technical topics and strategies for advancing evolutionary
applications in medicine. If you would like to be considered for
participation in that session, please send an e-mail to
invitation@worldhealthsummit.org stating your background and
motivation.

Please find more information and acess to the registration site at:
https://iri-ls.hu-berlin.de/en/events/interdisciplinary-dialogue

rmnesse@gmail.com

