Hello all,

This is just a reminder that the deadline for the Tropical Ferns and
Lycophytes course is coming up.

The course costs $2,100 per student, but OTS member tuition is just
$1,400 per student after applying a $700 OTS scholarship.  The tuition
fee includes all station fees, room and board during the two-and-a-half
week program.

Tropical Ferns and Lycophytes 50th Anniversary
Course dates:       January 6 - 22, 2017
Application deadline:   October 10, 2016 (followed by rolling admissions)

Tropical Ferns and Lycophytes course has impacted many pterodologists
since its inception in 1967. It is an intensive, 17-day field
introduction to the identification, classification, phylogenetics,
ecology and reproductive biology of tropical ferns and lycophytes for
up to 22 graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and researchers in
the fields of ecology, botany and conservation biology who require
a broad knowledge of fern and lycophytes biology.  This course is
designed to build the diverse skills needed for floristic, taxonomic,
phylogenetic and ecological research on tropical ferns.  Topics include:
fern ecology, fern ecophysiology, reproductive and gametophyte ecology,
methods of field collection and specimen preparation. Building upon
this foundation, students will develop their own research projects.
In past editions of this course, this has led in a few instances to
publishable research results.

Barbara Joe Hoshizaki was one of the students to take the first
OTS Tropical Ferns course. The course had an important impact on
Dr. Hoshizaki´s career and marked the work she would carry out through
her lifetime, most notably her Fern Grower's Manual, which she later
revised and expanded with Dr. Robbin Moran (2001).

50 years later, the OTS ferns course, led by Robbin C. Moran, Nathaniel
Lord Britton Curator of Botany, Institute of Systematic Botany of the New
York Botanical Garden, continues to be a key course for pterodologists.

As testament to Dr. Hoshizaki, the Hoshizaki family established the
Barbara Joe Hoshizaki Memorial Scholarship Fund for students interested
in the course and courses in Plant Systematics.

To apply for a Barbara Joe Hoshizaki Memorial Scholarship and participate
in the 50th Anniversary of the Ferns course, please contact the OTS
Graduate Program Coordinator.

Course Instructors:
Robbin Moran, PhD - New York Botanical Garden - website
James "Eddie" Watson, PhD - Colgate University - website

Invited Faculty:
Alejandra Vasco, PhD - Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM)
Jarmila Pittermann - University of California, Santa Cruz
Carl Taylor - Smithsonian Institution

For more information and to apply, visit the course
page on the OTS education website: bit.ly/2c5dzyk
<http://education.tropicalstudies.org/en/education/graduate-opportunities/programs/tropical-ferns-and-lycophytes.html>

Andrés Santana, M.Sc.
Graduate Program Coordinator
Organization for Tropical Studies
San Pedro, Costa Rica. 676-2050
(506) 2524-0607 ext. 1511
Skype: andres.santana_otscro // twitter: @ots_tropicaledu <https://twitter.com/ots_tropicaledu>
www.tropicalstudies.org

Andrés Santana Mora <andres.santana@tropicalstudies.org>

