*Course:FCUP and CIBIO-InBIO.Advanced course: Theory of Thermal Adaptation
and Practical Aspects of Studies in Vertebrate Ectotherm Species.Nov 30-Dec
2 2016*

*This international course will provide a theoretical background on the
topic of thermal adaptation integrated with ecological questions. The
course will cover a variety of approaches and methodologies used to study
thermoregulation, with an emphasis on ectothermic vertebrate. Students will
learn the principles of constructing theoretical models, designing
experiments, and analysing data in ecological and evolutionary contexts.

Program will cover topics: Theory of thermal adpatation; Integrating
physiology, behaviour and spatial modelling in studies of thermoregulation;
Including ecological factors into studies of thermoregulation; Practice:
experimental approaches and methodologies in thermal adaptation studies;
Overview of statistical approaches. Course instructors and organizers:
Michael J. Angilletta Jr. (ArizonaU), Michael W. Sears (ClemsonU), Miguel
A. Carretero (CIBIO InBIO, Uporto), Anamarija Žagar (CIBIO InBIO, Uporto),
Marco Sannolo (CIBIO InBIO, Uporto). The course will be open to a maximum
number of 25 participants; PhD students attending the BIODIV Doctoral
Program; other PhD students attending other courses; Other post-graduate
students and researchers. Registration deadline: November 16, 2016.

Participation is free of charge for BIODIV students. Registration fee
for other participants: 70 EUR (students) / 120 EUR (post-doc). To
register, please send an e-mail accompanied by your short CV (max. two
A4 pages) to anamarija.zagar@gmail.com. Please refer your status
(PhD student, Post-Doc researcher, Other) and the University to which
you are affiliated. Selection of participants will be made on the
basis of their CV (previous work experience on thermal adaptation
and relevance of the course for their research). More information on
https://cibio.up.pt/workshops--courses

Anamarija Zagar <anamarija.zagar@gmail.com>

