SMBE 2017 Symposium: Evolutionary Systems Biology of Cells
Please join us for an exciting symposium addressing key 
challenges at the interface of cell biology, systems biology, 
and evolution. How do cells evolve so many fascinating forms 
and functions and which tools can we use to discover more?

Keynote speakers 
-----

- Prof. Michael Lynch (Bloomington): Evolutionary Cell Biology 
- Prof. Trey Ideker (UCSD): Translation of Genotype to 
  Phenotype by a Hierarchy of Cell Subsystems 

We welcome abstract submissions for contributed talks and 
posters due * Next * Wednesday:

Important dates
-----

- 1st Feb 2017: SMBE abstract submission deadline, 
  submit here http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/
- 1st  March 2017: SMBE abstract notification
- 29th March 2017: End of reduced registration rates  

The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution Conference 
will be held in Austin, Texas, from 2 to 6 July 2017. 
Symposium is on July 3rd.

More Details
-----

The symposium program will also be published at:
- http://evolutionarysystemsbiology.org/meeting/2017-SMBE/ 

SMBE supports the presence of children at the conference:
- http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/childcare-at-smbe/ 

Symposium Description
-----

Cells are the basic units of life. Decades of research in 
molecular-, cell-, and systems-biology have accumulated impressive 
insights into the molecular mechanisms of life, but the 
biodiversity of cellular systems remain vastly under-explored 
despite its critical role in evolution. Building on successful 
models of well-known cells in controlled environments, this 
symposium aims to bring together cell biologists, systems biologists, 
evolutionary biologists, and others interested in advancing models 
of evolution at the cellular level. This focus on cellular systems 
celebrates the latest advances in the relentless Evolutionary 
Synthesis that started with Fisher 1918, and has been continuing 
whenever evolutionary biologists study complex biological systems 
to achieve an integrative understanding of evolution. Topics of 
interest include, but are not be limited to: 

- Mechanistic simulations predicting distributions of 
  mutational effects on cellular growth or survival 
- Mechanisms for establishing, maintaining, and modifying cellular
  pathways, gene-regulatory sub-networks and genetic subsystems
- Mechanisms for evolving novel cell types 
- Methods that help study the above

We will discuss how to integrate recent advances in genome biology, 
computational molecular systems biology, cell biology and 
evolutionary biology.  

Symposium organizers
-----

Dr. Laurence Loewe
Evolutionary Systems Biology Group
Laboratory of Genetics and
Wisconsin Institute for Discovery 
University of Wisconsin-Madison
330 North Orchard Street, Madison, WI, 53715 
Tel: +1 (608) 316 4324 
Email: loewe@wisc.edu	
http://wid.wisc.edu/profile/laurence-loewe/

Prof Anne-Ruxandra Carvunis
Department of Computational and Systems Biology
University of Pittsburgh
3501 Fifth Avenue, 3064 BST3 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA
Email: Carvunis@gmail.com
http://carvunislab.csb.pitt.edu/

"ll@evre.de" <ll@evre.de>

