SMBE 2017 Symposium "Integrating Ancient and Modern DNA"

We are pleased to announce a symposium on "Integrating Ancient and
Modern DNA" at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas, this July. Our invited
speakers are Beth Shapiro (UC Santa Cruz) and Stephan Schiffels
(Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena,
Germany). Abstract submissions for contributed talks and posters are
welcome and due on 1 February 2017. Please use the following link for
submission: http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/. Note that abstract
submission is possible prior to registration for the conference.

Symposium description:

***

The study of contemporary whole genomes has greatly improved our
understanding of the evolution of populations, but the availability of
ancient genomic data should give us a much more detailed comprehension of
the evolutionary process. However, the integration of ancient and modern
DNA into a coherent inferential framework is challenging notably due
to heterogeneous sampling times and locations, differences in coverage,
and post-mortem DNA damages. We also lack appropriate theoretical models
linking these two types of samples, as one for instance often ignores
the diffusion of genes in both space and time and assumes that old and
modern samples belong to the same population. The proper integration of
old and contemporary samples is essential to e.g. better distinguish
genetic drift from selection, follow specific adaptive processes over
time, uncover ancestral relationships among populations, distinguish
between alternate modes of selection, follow changes in gene flow over
time, or probe past population movements. In this symposium, we aim at
bringing together empiricists and theoreticians presenting either novel
methodological advances or new genomic datasets including a mixture of
ancient and modern samples or experimental/natural time series to tackle
fundamental problems in evolution.

***

SMBE 2017 will offer child care support during the conference
(http://www.smbe2017.org/destination/childcare-at-smbe/),
and you can apply for child care awards as well
(http://www.smbe.org/smbe/awards/ChildCareTravelAward).

SMBE 2017 will take place in Austin, Texas, from 2 to 6 July 2017.

Thanks,

Simon Aeschbacher (simon.aeschbacher@iee.unibe.ch)
Laurent Excoffier (laurent.excoffier@iee.unibe.ch)
Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas (anna-sapfo.malaspinas@iee.unibe.ch)

Institute of Ecology and Evolution
University of Bern
Baltzerstrasse 6
CH-3012 Bern
Switzerland

simon.aeschbacher@iee.unibe.ch

