We invite you to submit an abstract for the symposium on Host-Parasite
Coevolution, at the SMBE meeting in Austin Texas July 2-7.   Abstracts for
talks or posters are due February 1 2017. The submission website is here:
https://b-com.mci-group.com/AbstractSubmission/SMBE2017.aspx

A description of the symposium below:

The complex dynamics of host-parasite coevolution have infrequently
been described as changes in gene, protein, or cell function. But as
more researchers delve into diverse host and parasite systems, armed
with technological advances and focused on molecular evolution, it is
an opportune time to discuss novel findings and compare definitions
and questions. This symposium will foster dialogue among ecologists,
geneticists, molecular biologists, and immunologists, all united by
an interest in the mechanisms that underlie natural host and parasite
evolution. Although presentations will cover a wide range of taxa and
approaches, speakers will also address unifying concepts, including:
Which questions and approaches are likely to scale across many systems,
and which are relevant to only subset of taxa? How can molecular data
be used to revamp models of host-parasite interactions (or to design
new ones), and what previous theoretical predictions demand mechanistic
attention? What are the big differences between studying two-species
versus multi-species interactions? How is the molecular or cellular
biology of immunity different in wild populations (as opposed to lab
settings), and how can we best study immunology in the wild? And finally,
what advances in other fields of biology should be incorporated into
host-parasite studies, and vice versa?

Thanks,
Dan Bolnick
Jesse Weber
Natalie Steinel

Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick

Professor
Department of Integrative Biology
Chair, Graduate Program in Ecology Evolution and Behavior
One University Station C0990
University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712

512-471-2824
fax 512-471-3878
danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu

Lab website: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com

"Bolnick, Daniel I" <danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu>

