SMBE 2017 Symposium "Symbiosis and Interactions"  

We are accepting abstracts for our symposium on "Symbiosis and
Interactions" at SMBE 2017 in Austin, Texas, from July 2-6. The
symposium features invited speakers Daniel Sloan (Colorado State
University) and Teresa Pawlowska (Cornell University). Abstract
submissions for contributed talks and posters are due Wed Feb 1
(http://www.smbe2017.org/abstracts/).

Symposium summary:  
Symbiotic interactions between independent organisms play a critical
role in providing new ecological niches and promoting biological
diversification. Over evolutionary time, hosts and symbionts
often enter a permanent co-evolutionary relationship, where proper
maintenance and regulation of symbiosis is required for both lineages
to survive. Although beneficial, symbiotic partners are also faced with
challenges. Symbionts experience rapid evolution due to high levels of
genetic drift and potential selection for selfish traits and hosts must
evolve to compensate for these factors in order to maintain functional
symbiosis. Thus symbioses may be more similar to a coevolutionary arms
race rather than a static optimum. Our understanding of coevolutionary
interactions largely focuses on organelles (i.e. mitochondria and plastid)
and intracellular endosymbionts present within host cells. Examining the
role of genetic variation and functional constraints on the evolution of
interacting genomes will shed light on how obligate interactions between
co-evolving genomes can promote reproductive isolation, thus promoting
biological diversification. This symposium highlights work examining
coevolutionary interactions involving organelles and endosymbionts and
how these interactions may impact the evolutionary trajectory of these
lineages. This symposium provides a central opportunity for integrating
the advancements in both endosymbiont and organelle evolution as well
as symbiosis.

Thanks,  
Rebecca Chong (becky.chong@utexas.edu) 
Chih-Horng Kuo (chk@gate.sinica.edu.tw) 

--
Rebecca A. Chong Ph.D.
Postdoctoral Fellow
Department of Integrative Biology
University of Texas at Austin

"becky.chong@utexas.edu" <becky.chong@utexas.edu>

