Dear colleagues, 

The 8th edition of the course GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS AND PHYLOGENY has
open registration. Basic knowledge of Geometric Morphometrics is required.

INSTRUCTOR: Prof. Chris Klingenberg (University of Manchester, UK).

DATES: September 11th - 15th, 2017.

PLACE: Facilities of the Centre of Restauració i Interpretació
Paleontologica, Els Hostalets de Pierola, Barcelona (Spain).

Testimonials of previous editions:
http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/gm/gm-and-phylogeny/#Testimonials

PROGRAM,

1.  Phylogeny, trees and phylogenetic reasoning.
2.  Brief review of geometric morphometrics (Procrustes fit, PCA, etc.).
3.  Mapping traits onto phylogenies: squared-change parsimony.
4.  Practice: making/editing Nexus files, mapping morphometric data onto
    the tree (Mesquite, MorphoJ).
5.  Phylogenetic signal, morphometric traits and estimating phylogeny.
6.  Comparative methods: independent contrasts.
7.  Application in morphometrics: evolutionary allometry and size correction.
8.  Practice: comparative methods (MorphoJ).
9.  Application of comparative methods: morphological integration.
10. Multi-level analyses of integration: inferring evolutionary mechanisms.
11. Application of comparative methods: partial least squares
    (ecomorphology, etc.).
12. Practice; comparative methods (cont.).
13. Morphometrics, phylogenies and qualitative characters.
14. Disparity and diversification.
15. Presentations of group work.

More information:
http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/geometric-morphometrics/geometric-morphometrics-phylogeny/

or writing to courses@transmittingscience.org

Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut Catalá de Paleontologia
Miquel Crusafont and the Council of Hostalets de Pierola.

Please feel free to distribute this information between your colleagues
if you consider it appropriate.

With best regards 

Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD.
Scientific Director
Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org

Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno <soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org>

