Dear Colleagues,

We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and attend our
upcoming symposium on

" Wildfire Ecology and Life Evolution: From Ancient Time to Present"

which will be part of the 2017 International Congress of Ecology
(INTECOL 2017). The conference will be taking place from August 20th -
August 25th, 2017 in Beijing, China.

http://www.intecol2017.org/en/index.asp

Symposium description

[T11-01] Wildfire Ecology and Life Evolution: From Ancient Time to
Present

Wildfires have been a significant evolutionary factor shaping the
ecology of flora from ancient time to the present. This symposium
synthesise research from on how has shaping ecology and evolution of
terrestrial ecosystems from ancient time to the present, and how
current knowledge can be translated into better fire management. "
Wildfires are common and widespread in the modern world, with about 60%
of the Earth's land surface being burnt over a 15-year period. The
fossils provide strong evidence in support of hypotheses of great
antiquity for fire. Charcoals as evidence of presence of ancient
wildfire first appeared from the late Silurian, 410 Ma. However,
ecologists and paleo-botanists have long believed that climate and
soils controlled the distribution of ecosystems, the role of wildfire
was largely overlooked. The strong focus on the negative impact of
wildfires on life and property has historically hindered our
understanding of fire ecology. Only very recently, evidence become
emerging that wildfire played an important role throughout the history
of life on the Earth. Wildfire influences on global ecosystem patterns
and processes, and has had a pronounced effect on the evolution of
biotas, and distribution of ecosystem.

In view of the limited fossil evidence for fire being a significant
ecological and evolutionary factor, a major breakthrough in determining
the origin of fire-related lineages has occurred over the last seven
years. There is accumulating molecular evidence that fire-adapted
lineages go back many tens of millions of years. These dates have been
largely reconciled with fossil evidence.  Humans and our ancestors are
the only fire-making species. As we have expanded their use of fire,
our actions have come to dominate some ecosystems and change natural
processes in ways that threaten the sustainability of some landscapes.
Moreover, the interaction between fires and climate change add to the
future uncertainty. We need to learn more about how wildfire interacts
with a multitude of ecosystem processes. Particularly, we need better
data on past and current human influences on fire regimes, and a
greater understanding of different cultural traditions of landscape
burning and their positive and negative social, economic and ecological
effects.

This symposium intends to bring together ecologists, public educator,
practitioners and policy-makers who have common interest on wildfire,
synthesise research from global fire-prone ecosystems on how wildfire
as ecological and evolutionary factor shaping terrestrial ecosystem
from ancient time to the present, so that current knowledge can be
translated into better fire management.

We are looking forward to many exciting contributions and to a
stimulating discussion with you! The deadline for ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
is February 10, 2017.

To submit abstracts online, please go to:

http://www.intecol2017.org/en/index.asp

Meanwhile, participants of this symposium are encouraged to submit the
same abstract to Proceedings of the symposium 'Wildfire Ecology and
Life Evolution: From Ancient Time to Present' of the International
Congress of Ecology (INTECOL 2017 Beijing). See
http://journal.frontiersin.org/researchtopic/5544/proceedings-of-the-sy
mposium-wildfire-ecology-and-life-evolution-from-ancient-time-to-presen
t-of-the for details. So that Proceedings (of abstracts) will be
published by Frontiers in Plant Sciences free of charge.

For those participants who wish to publish their presented work (or any
fire-related work) in a full paper, please consider submitting the full
paper to a special issue of Frontiers in Plant Science before September
1 2017. This invitation is extended to anyone, including those are not
able attend the symposium, wish to publish a manuscript related to
wildfire ecology and life evolution). Frontiers in Plant Science is an
open access journal, indexed by ISI (with an impact factor of 4.5 in
2016) and Scopus. The journal however charges an article process fee
but discount may apply. See
http://journal.frontiersin.org/researchtopic/5544/proceedings-of-the-sy
mposium-wildfire-ecology-and-life-evolution-from-ancient-time-to-presen
t-of-the.

We hope to see you in Beijing in August 2017!

Best wishes from the organizers,

Tianhua He, Curtin University, Australia

Jian Yang, Institute of Applied Ecology, CAS, China

Brett Murphy, Charles Darwin University, Australia

If you have any further questions, please don't hesitate to contact

Tianhua He (Tianhua.He@curtin.edu.au) or Jian Yang (yangjian@iae.ac.cn)
or Brett Murphy (Brett.P.Murphy@cdu.edu.au)

Dr Tianhua He

Department of Environment and Agriculture

Curtin University

Perth, Western Australia

https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tianhua_He4

Tianhua He <Tianhua.He@curtin.edu.au>

