Dear all,

we still have a few places available (first come, first served) for the
"Data Manipulation and VIsualization with Python" Workshop, 13-17 March
2017 in Berlin (Germany) http://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course10/

Application deadline: 

February 24th 2017.

Instructor:

Dr Martin Jones (Founder, Python for
Biologists http://pythonforbiologists.com )
http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t1/

Course overview:

One of the strengths of the Python language is the availability of mature,
high-quality libraries for working with scientific data. Integration
between the most popular libraries has led to the concept of a "scientific
Python stack": a collection of packages which are designed to work well
together. In this workshop we will see how to leverage these libraries
to efficiently work with and visualize large volumes of data.

Workshop format:

The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions. Each session
consists of roughly a one hour lecture followed by two hours of practical
exercises, with breaks at the organizer's discretion. Each session uses
examples and exercises that build on material from the previous one,
so it's important that students attend all sessions. The last two
sessions will be kept free for students to work on their own datasets
with the assistance of the instructor. A description of the sessions
can be found at the bottom of this page.

Who should attend:

This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical workers who are
dealing with large datasets and don't know how to investigate them to
make publishable graphics.

Requirements:

Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics background
to appreciate the example datasets. They should also have some basic
Python experience (the Introduction to Python course will fulfill these
requirements). Students should be familiar with the use of lists, loops,
functions and conditions in Python and have written at least a few small
programs from scratch. Students will require the scientific Python stack
to be installed on their laptops before attending; instructions for this
will be sent out prior to the course.

Venue

Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM) Berlin-Dahlem, Freie
Universität Berlin, Königin-Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin.

Curriculum

Monday 13th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 1 - Introduction and datasets

Jupyter (formerly iPython) is a programming environment that is rapidly
becoming the de facto standard for scientific data analysis. In this
session we'll learn why Jupyter is so useful, covering its ability to mix
notes and code, to render inline plots, charts and tables, to use custom
styles and to create polished web pages. We'll also take a look at the
datasets that we'll be investigating during the course and discuss the
different types of data we encounter in bioinformatics work.

Session 2 - Introduction to pandas

In this session we introduce the first part of the scientific Python
stack: the pandas data manipulation package. We'll learn about Dataframes
  the core data structure that much of the rest of the course will
rely on   and how they allow us to quickly select, sort, filter
and summarize large datasets. We'll also see how to extend existing
Dataframes by writing functions to create new columns, as well as how
to deal with common problems like missing or inconsistent values in
datasets. We'll get our first look at data visualization by using pandas'
built in plotting ability to investigate basic properties of our datasets.

Tuesday 14th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 3- Grouping and pivoting with pandas

This session continues our look at pandas with advanced uses of Dataframes
that allow us to answer more complicated questions. We'll look two very
powerful tools: grouping, which allows us to aggregate information in
datasets, and pivoting/stacking, which allows us to flexibly rearrange
data (a key step in preparing datasets for visualization). In this
session we'll also go into more detail about pandas indexing system.

Session 4- Advanced manipulation with pandas

In this final session on the pandas library we'll look at a few common
types of data manipulation   binning data (very useful for working with
time series), carrying out principal component analysis, and creating
networks. We'll also cover some features of pandas designed for working
with specific types of data like timestamps and ordered categories.

Wednesday 15th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 5-Introduction to seaborn

This session introduces the seaborn charting library by showing how we
can use it to investigate relationships between different variables
in our datasets. Initially we concentrate on showing distributions
with histograms, scatter plots and regressions, as well as a few more
exotic chart types like hexbins and KDE plots. We also cover heatmaps,
in particular looking at how they lend themselves to displaying the type
of aggregate data that we can generate with pandas.

Session 6-Categories in seaborn

This session is devoted to seaborn's primary use case: visualizing
relationships across multiple categories in complex datasets. We see how
we can use colour and shape to distinguish categories in single plots,
and how these features work together with the pandas tools we have already
seen to allow us to very quickly explore a dataset. We continue by using
seaborn to build small multiple or facet plots, separating categories
by rows and columns. Finally, we look at chart types that are designed
to show distributions across categories: box and violin plots, and the
more exotic swarm and strip plots.

Thursday 16th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 7- Customization with seaborn

For the final session on seaborn, we go over some common types of
customization that can be tricky. To achieve very fine control over the
style and layout of our plots, we'll learn how to work directly with
axes and chart objects to implement things like custom heatmap labels,
log axis scales, and sorted categories.

Session 8- Matplotlib

In the final teaching session, we look at the library that both
pandas and seaborn rely on for their charting tools: matplotlib. We'll
see how by using matplotlib directly we can do things that would be
impossible in pandas or seaborn, such as adding custom annotations to
our charts. We'll also look at using matplotlib to build completely new,
custom visualization by combining primitive shapes.

Friday 17th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Sessions 9&10-Data workshop

The two sessions on the final day are set aside for a data
workshop. Students can practice applying the tools they've learned to
their own datasets with the help of an instructor, or continue to work
on exercises from the previous day. There may also be time for some
demonstrations of topics of particular interest, such as interactive
visualization tools and animations.

Cost overview:

There are two packages available:

1) "only-course" (580 euros VAT included) includes refreshments,
   lunch and course material;

2) "all-inclusive" (795 euros VAT included) includes refreshments,
   course material, accommodation and meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner).

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

Skype: carlo_pecoraro

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

