Dear all,

We are happy to announce that we will be holding the second edition of
the "Introduction to Linux and workflows for biologists" in Berlin
(Germany) from the 31th July to the 4th August 2017.

Instructor:

Dr Martin Jones (Founder, Python for
Biologists http://pythonforbiologists.com )
http://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t1/

Overview

Most high-throughput bioinformatics work these days takes place on
the Linux command line. The programs which do the majority of the
computational heavy lifting   genome assemblers, read mappers,
and annotation tools   are designed to work best when used with a
command-line interface. Because the command line can be an intimidating
environment, many biologists learn the bare minimum needed to get their
analysis tools working. This means that they miss out on the power of
Linux to customize their environment and automate many parts of the
bioinformatics workflow. This course will introduce the Linux command
line environment from scratch and teach students how to make the most
of its tools to achieve a high level of productivity when working with
biological data.

Intended audience

This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical workers with a
background in biology who want to learn to use the Linux operating
system and the command line environment. No previous experience of Linux
is required.

Venue

Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM) Berlin-Dahlem, Freie
Universität Berlin, Königin-Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin.

Course Programme

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course1/curriculum/

Monday 31th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 1 - The design of Linux

Session 2 - System management

Tuesday 1sh - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

 Session 3 - Manipulating tabular data

Session 4 - Constructing pipelines

Wednesday 2nd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 5 - EMBOSS

Session 6 - Using a Linux server

Thursday 3rd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 7 - Combining methods

Session 8 - Combining methods

Friday 4th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 9 - Customization

Session 10

The afternoon of Friday 18th is reserved for finishing off the next-
gen workflow exercise, working on your own datasets, or leaving early
for travel.

 

Application deadline is June 30th 2017.  

Available packages:

1) "only-course" (580 euros VAT included) includes refreshments,
   lunch and course material;

2) "all-inclusive" (795 euros VAT included) includes refreshments,
   course material, accommodation and meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner).

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

