Dear all,

here's an updated version of the syllabus for the "16S rRNA gene
Metabarcoding" workshop, 3-7 April 2017 in Berlin (Germany).

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course8/

Instructor: Dr. Alexandre de Menezes (National University of Ireland
Galway) https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t5/

Course overview

The 16s rRNA gene has become the standard marker for prokaryote
phylogenetic analysis, and combined with high-throughput sequencing
technologies it is widely used to infer the structure and composition of
microbial communities. Due to the continuous improvements in sequencing
technologies and bioinformatics tools, there is a wide choice of methods
for sequencing and analysing 16S rRNA gene assemblies. This workshop
is designed to give students the necessary background and practical
experience of the strategies for the analysis of the diversity and
structure of prokaryote communities, covering i) experimental design
and primer choices; ii) wet-lab and library preparation options; iii)
sequence quality control and analysis and iv) statistical analysis of
microbial community data. The many sequencing and analysis options will
be discussed, whereas a more in-depth tutorial using real sequence data
will provide an opportunity for the student to practice 16S rRNA sequence
analysis from raw sequence files to ecological interpretation. Course
material, such as presentation slides and necessary model data, will be
provided to the students.

Targeted audience and assumed background

This workshop is intended for students and researchers interested in
microbial ecology but who are not yet very familiar with the techniques
involved. Choosing the appropriate primers, library preparation kits,
sequencing methodologies and bioinformatics pipelines can be quite
daunting to the uninitiated. This workshop will allow researchers
interested more confidence in their methodology and analyses choices. The
target audience include students of animal or plant microbiomes as well
as those studying environmental microbial communities. It is assumed that
the workshop attendees are interested in performing 16S rRNA metabarcoding
using the Illumina MiSeq platform, although other sequencing technologies
will be discussed during the workshop.

Knowledge of Linux and R or familiarity with working in the command line
will be helpful, but for those new to the area detailed instructions
will allow students to follow the workshop. Students will need to have
a computer running either on Linux or a Linux virtual machine running
on MacOX/Windows computers. Contact the instructor at ademez@gmail.com
if in doubt about computational requirements.

Workshop structure

The workshop will consist of both lectures and practical
classes. Background information will be provided to help workshop
attendees choose the appropriate experimental design, primers, sequencing
library preparation kits and to contextualise the bioinformatics and
statistical analysis methods. Practical tutorials will be conducted on
a step-by-step basis to guide the student from when receiving data from
a sequence provider to obtaining plots and tables describing microbial
community diversity, structure and relationships to environmental
variables or host data.

Venue

Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum (BGBM) Berlin-Dahlem, Freie
Universität Berlin, Königin-Luise-Straße 6-8, 14195 Berlin.

Session contents

Monday 3rd-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00

Session 1: the 16S rRNA gene

The use of the 16S rRNA gene as a marker for prokaryote phylogenetics
will be discussed to introduce the students to the concept of conserved
and hypervariable regions. The student will learn about the history
of this molecular marker and why it is the choice for prokaryote
diversity studies. The primer combinations used to target the different
hypervariable regions will be discussed, as well as what is known
regarding their advantages and disadvantages. The pros and cons of
PCR-based 16S rRNA gene sequencing versus PCR-free shot-gun metagenomics
will also be discussed.

This session will also include an overview of current sequencing
technologies, and the Illumina MiSeq platform will be contrasted with
other sequencing technologies (Ion Torrent, MinIon, PacBio and Moleculo).

Session 2: sequencing experimental design and initial hands-on exercises

Focusing on the MiSeq platform, experimental design considerations
will be discussed and topics discussed will include sequence depth,
replication, contamination and the use of appropriate controls and
mock communities. Other topics that will be taught include: metadata
collection, DNA extraction and RNA-cDNA sequencing. Demo sequence data
will be used to check that the appropriate tools are installed correctly
for subsequent practical work, and students will perform exercises in the
examination of sequence files to obtain basic characteristics of sequence
datasets such as the number of sequences, sequence length ranges and
sequence quality. Students will learn how to look into Illumina fastq
files using FASTQC to check for sequence quality, and in Linux students
will look inside the fastq files to understand the information they
contain and to differentiate these from fasta files.

Tuesday 4th-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00

Session 3: library preparation for MiSeq sequencing

The choice of sequencing libraries can have a substantial effect on
the quality and quantity of data obtained from the MiSeq, and will
also change the cost and ease of wet-lab procedures. An overview of
sequence library preparation methods will be taught, contrasting two-step
(Illumina Nextera) to one step library kits. Students will learn how
samples are barcoded, how the PCR fragments are prepared for sequencing,
and what are the implications for sequence fragment sizes. Students will
also learn how sequencing libraries are pooled and loaded on the MiSeq,
what are the consequences of loading too much or too little library
DNA onto the MiSeq flow cell to introduce the concepts of over- and
under-clustering. The choice of sequencing kits (i.e., V2 or V3 250-600
cycles) will also be discussed.

Session 4: practical session on sequence analysis pipelines

The main sequence analysis tools will be introduced: Mothur, QIIME and
DADA2. Background information on the rationale behind the different
sequence analysis steps, such as trimming, merging and removal of low
quality sequences, chimera checking and sequence annotation methods will
be detailed. A particular focus will be given to the different strategies
for generating OTUs. Students will follow exercises in the initial
sequence quality control and pre-treatment options using FASTX-toolkit,
FLASH and BBMerge.

Wednesday 5th-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00

Session 5: mothur and QIIME tutorial

In this session the mothur MiSeq standard protocol will be followed
using model data. This tutorial will take the students through
steps involving further sequence quality control, sequence noise
reduction, sequence alignment, chimera checking and removal, removal
of contaminants, and clustering to generate OTU tables, phylogenies
and OTU classifications. The choices of curated 16S rRNA gene databases
(Silva, Greengenes and RDP databases) will be explained, and finally the
.biom files will be generated and its uses discussed. In this session
we will also run the model data through the QIIME pipeline. QIIME is a
very popular 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis tool and in this session
it will be used to generate the OTU table, phylogenetic trees, sequence
classifications and the biom table as demonstrated previously with mothur.

Session 6: DADA2

DADA2 is a relatively new R package that combines all steps in amplicon
sequence analysis from sequence quality filtering, merging paired-end
sequences and sample inference. DADA2 is highly accurate, designed
to resolve fine-scale sequence variation, and unlike mothur or QIIME,
DADA2 does not cluster sequences into OTUs, potentially allowing for the
detection of strain-level diversity (i.e. ribosomal sequence variants,
or RSVs). This session will run through the DADA2 paired-end pipeline
and its outputs will be compared to that of mothur and QIIME.

Thursday 6th-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00

Session 7:  Using statistical tools provided in mothur and QIIME

In this session the importance, relevance and drawbacks of data
normalisation, subsampling and rarefaction prior to statistical
analyses will be considered. Subsequently this session will involve
using statistical tools available in mothur and QIIME that allow
the determination of diversity coverage, alpha and beta diversity
estimations and community similarity estimation across samples. Amova,
homova and metastats will be demonstrated in mothur and in QIIME the
UniFrac measure of dissimilarity will be used to analyse patterns of
community data across treatments.

Session 8: using DADA2-Phyloseq Bioconductor microbiome workflow

Phyloseq is an R package to import, store and analyse microbiome data.
Phyloseq allows the integration of OTU/RSV tables, taxonomy tables,
phylogenetic trees and sample metadata into a single experiment level
object.  Phyloseq is well integrated with a variety of ecological
statistical tools available in R, such as vegan, ape and ggplott2 for
the analysis and visualisation of data. In this session we will start
exploring a Bioconductor workflow using Phyloseq data object which
allows the generation of publication-ready plots. We will learn how to
import and store data in Phyloseq, how to subset data to study specific
taxonomic groups or treatments. We will also explore how to filter low
abundance taxa, how to agglomerate OTUs/RSVs abundance by taxonomic
rank or by phylogenetic distance, and how to transform data and work
with rank-transformed sequence abundance data.

Friday 7th-Classes from 10:00 to 18:00

Session 9: multivariate statistics and correlation network analysis in
R and Linux

In this session we will learn multivariate statistical tools available
from Phyloseq/Bioconductor to analyse the OTU/RSV tables generated earlier
in the workshop. We will learn how to conduct analysis of differential
abundance across treatments using Deseq2, and Phyloseq and ggplot2
will be used to generate MDS, PCoA and other ordination plots. The
choice of different distance and similarity indices (bray-curtis,
unifrac, jaccard, gower) will be discussed. Subsequently PICRUST will
be used to predict possible functional roles (such as pathogenicity,
environmental nutrient cycling, decomposition etc) of the sequenced
microbial community, and the drawbacks of predicting function from
taxonomy will also be discussed. Lastly, SCINC and MIC will be used
to perform OTU correlation network analysis, allowing inference of
interactions between microbial groups present in the dataset. Correlation
network plots will be visualised in Cytoscape.

Optional session 10: wrap up and questions

In this session, the students will be able to continue further statistical
analyses started in session 9, and any questions from previous sessions
will be addressed. Students may also start analysing their own data
using the tools taught in the workshop with advice from the instructor.

Further information:

There two packages available: 1) "only-course", which costs 430
euros (VAT included) and includes refreshments and course material; 2)
"all-inclusive" which costs 695 euros (VAT included) and includes
refreshments, course material, accommodation and meals (breakfast,
lunch, dinner).

Registration deadline: March 3rd, 2017

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

