Dear Evoldir,

I think this symposium will be of interest to some of you (and
registration is free!)

***  Information transmission in small RNA pathways: Mechanisms and
consequences  ***

When:  Friday 10 March 2017
Where:  Royal Society of Edinburgh, George Street, Edinburgh

Registration:  https://small-rna-pathways.eventbrite.co.uk

This one-day symposium aims to stimulate discussion between researchers
working on different aspects of small-RNA biology. This includes both
molecular biologists and evolutionary biologists interested in small-RNA
mechanisms in disease and life-history contexts.

The theme of "information transmission" has been chosen to include the
transmission of information through the pathways themselves (interaction
or coevolution between small RNAs and their targets, target recognition),
transmission in space by small-RNA transport (between tissues or
between hosts and parasites), or transmission of information in time,
either within-individuals ('memory') or between individuals (mother
to offspring).

Plenary Speakers:
* Prof. Shou-Wei Ding
* Prof. Sir David Baulcombe FRS 

Confirmed Speakers:
* Antony Jose (University of Maryland)
* Peter Sarkies (MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences) 
* Maria Carla Saleh (Institut Pasteur, Paris) 
* Carine Meignin (IBMC, Strasbourg)
* Herve Vaucheret (INRA)	
* Friedrich Kragler (Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology)

The meeting will be held at the Royal Society of Edinburgh on 10
March 2017

Registration will open at 9 am, and the opening plenary will start
at 9.30 am. The meeting will close with an informal buffet and drinks
starting at 5.50pm.

The meeting is free to attend, including lunch and coffee, but please
register at https://small-rna-pathways.eventbrite.co.uk

There will be poster sessions during the breaks and lunch, and if you
wish to bring a poster (A0 portrait) please include the poster title
and a brief (50 word) summary when you register.

On behalf of the organisers: Amy Buck and Darren Obbard

a.buck@ed.ac.uk; darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk

Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution University of Edinburgh
Ashworth Laboratories Charlotte Auerbach Road
Edinburgh       
EH9 3FL
0131 651 3688

-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.

"darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk" <darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk>

