Dear Colleagues,

We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and attend our ESEB2017
symposium [S21] on "Genetic exchange in microbial adaptation and
infectious disease².

The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August
2017. The deadline for abstract submission is January 10, 2017.

To submit abstracts online, please go to:
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Horizontal gene transfer (genetic exchange) plays a key role in microbial
evolution. New insights into mechanisms and consequences of gene exchange,
such as the contribution of phage-encoded genes to bacterial adaptation in
the gut and CRISPR systems for bacterial immunity, are fundamentally
changing our understanding of how the genetic variation that fuels
evolution is created. Moreover, genetic exchange is central to the
evolutionary biology of infectious disease. For example, antibiotic
resistance alleles and virulence factors are often encoded on mobile
elements such as plasmids. This symposium aims to bridge the gap between
research on the basic evolutionary biology of genetic exchange and
consequences for understanding the evolution and epidemiology of
infectious diseases. We think this will make an exciting ESEB symposium
because genetic exchange is a highly active field among theoretical and
experimental evolutionary biologists, and its role in pathogen evolution
is a clear example of how evolutionary biology can inform public health
and medicine. The invited speakers are at the forefront of research on
horizontal gene transfer, its role in evolution in general and in key
contexts like antibiotic resistance. To minimize implicit bias in
reviewing submitted abstracts we will use a blinding procedure.

INVITED SPEAKERS (both confirmed):
Didier Mazel (Institut Pasteur, Paris, France)
Alvaro San Millan (University of Oxford, UK)

ORGANIZERS:
Jan Engelstädter (U Queensland)
Alex Hall (ETH Zurich)
Ellie Harrison (U York)

If you have any questions, please don¹t hesitate to contact one of us
(j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au, alex.hall@env.ethz.ch or
ellie.harrison@york.ac.uk). We hope to see you in Groningen later this
year!

--- 
Jan Engelstädter
The University of Queensland
School of Biological Sciences
Brisbane, QLD 4072
Australia

phone: +61 7 336 57959
www.engelstaedterlab.org

"j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au" <j.engelstaedter@uq.edu.au>

