Dear Colleagues,

We encourage you to submit abstracts and attend our ESEB2017 symposium
[S28] on "Intragenomic conflicts and cytonuclear incompatibilities as
engines of speciation"

The symposium will take place at the XVI Congress of the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August
2017. The deadline for abstract submission is January 10, 2017.

For abstract guidelines, please visit
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
This symposium is the result of merging two former independent proposals,
"Intragenomic conflicts and speciation" and "The impact of mitonuclear
incompatibilities on animal speciation".

Conflicts between genetic elements within an individual for transmission
into the next generation are increasingly recognized as powerful
drivers of evolutionary change. A by-product of the conflicts and their
differential resolution can be negative epistatic interactions causing
reduced fitness of hybrids and thus paving the way to speciation. Multiple
genes involved in postzygotic reproductive isolation between recently
diverged species have experienced bouts of adaptive evolution which
cannot be easily linked to ecological selection, but which could result
from intragenomic conflict (IC) and selection for its resolution. Also
phenotypes of interspecific crosses experiencing asymmetric hybrid
breakdown can often be linked to ICs. A major unresolved question is
the relative role of ecologically based selection and selection due to
ICs in the early stages of speciation. In this symposium we would like
to bring together diverse experimental, comparative and theoretical
perspectives on the subject.

Many different and essential molecular factories within the cell combine
units contributed both by nuclear and organelle genomes. Notwithstanding
the functional constraints that operate on those complexes, the
independent control of the replication of those genomes anticipates
challenging scenarios for the interplay of genetic conflicts,
compensatory changes and molecular drive. Mitochondrial and plastid genome
variation in natural populations have been traditionally considered as
essentially neutral, and accordingly used during the last three decades
to reconstruct the history of genetic lineages in a huge number of animal
and plant species. Direct evidence of cytonuclear incompatibilities in
wild populations is relatively common in plants, but definitely not in
animals, which could be particularly hard to analyze in this respect. If
mitonuclear incompatibilities in wild animal populations were finally
unveiled, it would be necessary to revise the main conclusions of
hundreds of papers dealing with phylogeographic patterns in animal
species, published in the last 30 years, and the general role of the
coevolution of nuclear and organelle genomes in speciation.

Organizers: Wieslaw Babik, Tracey Chapman, Radwan Jacek, Horacio Naveira,
Antón Vila-Sanjurjo

Invited speakers: Daven Presgraves, Dan Mishmar ---

Dr. Horacio F. Naveira
Professor of Genetics
GIBE (http://www.udc.gal/grupos/gibe/index.html)
Center of Advanced Scientific Research (CICA)
Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology
Faculty of Sciences
University of A Coruña
Rúa da Fraga 10 (Campus Zapateira)
15008 A Coruña, SPAIN

Tel. (34)881012047

horaci@udc.es

