microMORPHWorkshop 2017 - The Developmental Basis of Evolutionary
Innovation

March3-5, 2017, at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, Boston, MA.

microMORPHINTERDISCIPLINARY WORKSHOPS bring together small groups of
graduate students, post-doctoral researchers, and faculty with diverse
interests and expertise to interact and discuss critical concepts,
intellectual objectives, emerging technologies, and analytical approaches
that have the potential to advance our understanding of the evolution
of plant form.

Weare accepting applications from graduate students (at all stages
of their dissertation research) and postdoctoral researchers. Eight
student/postdoctoral participants will be chosen to attend, give
presentations on their research (which should be address some aspect of
evolutionary innovation in plants), and engage in the discussions.

microMORPHwill fund travel, accommodations, and meals for selected
participants who are U.S. citizens or who are associated with a
U.S. institution/university. Non-U.S. citizens that are not associated
with a U.S. institution are welcome to participate but will have to fund
their own travel and accommodations.

ParticipatingFaculty Include: Jeff Doyle (Cornell University), Spencer
Barrett (University of Toronto), Robin Hopkins (Harvard University),
Elizabeth (Toby) Kellogg (Donald Danforth Center), Lionie Moyle (Indiana
University), Günter Theißen (Friedrich-Schiller-University Jena),
Carolyn Wessinger (University of Kansas), Pamela Diggle (University of
Connecticut), William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University).

Howto Apply: For full application instructions (including list of required
documents) and to submit applications, please visit the microMORPH website
(http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).

Questionsor Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at RCNmicromorph@gmail.com,
or visit our website at http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph.

ApplicationDeadline: Applications must be submitted by 11:30 pm January
16th, 2017.

PamelaDiggle

Professor
Departmentof Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Universityof Connecticut

860-486-4788 <tel:860-486-4788>

diggle@colorado.edu

