microMORPH Workshop 2017 - The Developmental Basis of Evolutionary
Innovation

March 3-5, 2017, at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, Boston,
MA.

microMORPH INTERDISCIPLINARY WORKSHOPS bring together small groups of
graduate students, post-doctoral researchers, and faculty with diverse
interests and expertise to interact and discuss critical concepts,
intellectual objectives, emerging technologies, and analytical approaches
that have the potential to advance our understanding of the evolution
of plant form.

We are accepting applications from graduate students (at all stages
of their dissertation research) and postdoctoral researchers. Eight
student/postdoctoral participants will be chosen to attend, give
presentations on their research (which should be address some aspect of
evolutionary innovation in plants), and engage in the discussions.

microMORPH will fund travel, accommodations, and meals for selected
participants who are U.S. citizens or who are associated with a
U.S. institution/university. Non-U.S. citizens that are not associated
with a U.S. institution are welcome to participate but will have to fund
their own travel and accommodations.

Participating Faculty Include: Jeff Doyle (Cornell University), Spencer
Barrett (University of Toronto), Robin Hopkins (Harvard University),
Elizabeth (Toby) Kellogg (Donald Danforth Center), Lionie Moyle (Indiana
University), Günter Theißen (Friedrich-Schiller-University Jena),
Carolyn Wessinger (University of Kansas), Pamela Diggle (University of
Connecticut), William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University).

How to Apply: For full application instructions (including list of
required documents) and to submit applications, please visit the
microMORPH website (http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).

Questions or Comments? Contact Becky Povilus at
RCNmicromorph@gmail.com, or visit our
website at http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph.

Application deadline extended: Applications must be submitted by 11:30
pm January 23rd, 2017.

Pamela Diggle

Professor
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
University of Connecticut

860-486-4788 <tel:860-486-4788>

diggle@colorado.edu
