EVOLUTION OF SEX ROLES

Dear Colleagues

Glad to announce that our Wshop just launched a website:
www.congressline.hu/evolution2017
The Registration document is downloadable from the website.

See you soon in Tihany.

Best wishes,  Tamas Szekely on behalf of the organisers

===WORKSHOP INVITATION
SEX-ROLE EVOLUTION: INTEGRATING NEURAL, BEHAVIOURAL AND PHYLOGENETIC
APPROACHES

We are glad to invite you to our Workshop that will take place between
6th April 2017 and 9th April 2017 in Tihany, Hungary. The event will
start with wine-tasting on Thursday 6 April, will include 2 full days
for research talks by top scientists, post-docs and students, and an
optional excursion on Sunday to a hot spa (Heviz) and/or the historic
Festetics Palace in Keszthely.

Theoretical, experimental, phylogenetic, demographic and neuro-genomic
studies of sexual selection, mating systems, pair-bonding, parenting
and reproductive behaviours are rapidly advancing. The objectives of the
workshop are to overview recent developments in sex roles and associated
behaviours, and allow scientists and students to develop new ideas. The
Workshop will take place at the guesthouse of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences at Lake Balaton. The guesthouse offers a great venue for up to
60 participants, see www.blki.hu/vendeghaz/index_en.html

Balaton is a major tourist destination in Central Europe (see
http://balaton.gotohungary.com/), and the Workshop will be before the peak
tourist season; so we'll have all the scenery, folklore and tradition
without the crowd. Balaton is one of the best wine-growing regions in
Hungary famous for white wines including the Szurkebarat and Juhfark.

The Workshop will focus on three main themes:
(i)              behavioural variations in sex roles and their
                 ecological and demographic causes,
(ii)            phylogenetic analyses of sex role variations, and
(iii)           neuro-genomic regulation of sex roles.

In each theme there will be seminars by invited speakers and contributions
by young scientists, post-docs and PhD students. We will also discuss
the future of sex role research: what are the outstanding questions,
what techniques will need to be developed, and how should the field as
such develop. The combination of different research skills and variety
of model organisms will provide outstanding opportunities to synthesize
major research directions.

Confirmed invited speakers include:

1. Variations in sex roles

Professor Franjo Weissing

University of Groningen, Groningen

Dr Franziska Lemmel-Schadelin

University of Veterinarian Medicine, Vienna

Dr Lutz Fromhage

University of Jyvaskyla, Jyveskyla

Professor Wolfgang Goymann

Max Planck Institute, Radolfzell

Professor Jan Komdeur

University of Groningen, Groningen

2. Phylogenetic approach to sex roles

Dr Laszlo Garamszegi

Donana Biological Station, Sevilla

Dr Elina Immonen

University of Uppsala, Uppsala

Professor Jean-Michael Gaillard

CNRS-University of Lyon, Lyon

Dr Veronika Bokony

Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest

3. Neuro-genomic regularion of sex roles

Dr Dora Zelena

Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest

Dr Araxi Urrutia

University of Bath, Bath

Dr Clemens Kupper

Max Planck Institute, Seewiesen

Professor Hans Hofmann

University of Texas, Austin

Registration fee that includes the welcome wine-tasting on Thursday and
the farewell dinner on Saturday will be 80 EUR for students and 125 EUR
for non-students. Accommodation will be around 25 EUR per night in shared
rooms, and 30-40 EUR per night in single rooms or apartments. Lunch and
dinner will be around 10-15 EUR per meal.

Spaces are limited to 60 and we will give priority to students offering a
talk. This will be an excellent training opportunity for young scientists,
and we encourage senior scientists to bring along their students and
post-docs. We recommend registering early, since spaces will rapidly
fill up.

Application deadline: Friday, 17 February 2017. Registration will be
available soon on the workshop website. For scientific details feel
free contacting one of the organisers. For administrative questions
and further information on the venue, please, contact Bea Golovanova,
CongressLine Ltd. Address: Revay koz 2, H-1065 Budapest, Hungary. Phone:
+ 36 1 429 0146. E-mail: golob@congressline.hu

This will be a family-friendly event so do consider bringing along your
family. CongressLine Ltd will be glad to accommodate individual requests
so that you'll benefit from the off-season prices around Balaton.

We look forward to hearing from you.
Best regards,

Prof Arpad Dobolyi, Hungarian Academy of Sciences,
dobolyia@caesar.elte.hu, dobolyi.arpad@med.semmelweis-univ.hu
Prof Andras Liker, University of Pannonia, andras.liker@gmail.com
Prof Tamas Szekely, University of Bath, T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk

*****

Tamás Székely, Professor of Biodiversity
Fellow of Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin 2016/17
Dept of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK
01225 383676 (phone), 01225 386779 (fax), T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk (email)
http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/biodiversity-lab/index.htm
President & Founder, Maio Biodiversity Foundation, Cape Verde
http://www.maioconservation.org

Tamas Szekely <T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk>

