We would like to welcome you to join a two-day interdisciplinary workshop
on "Adaptive Epigenomics: Building a bridge between animal and human
research" hosted Prof. Thomas Elbert and Prof. Axel Meyer and sponsored
by the Hector Fellowship Academy. The workshop will be held in Konstanz,
Germany, from July 24-25, 2017, and is organized by Dr. Amber Makowicz
(post-doc research with Dr. Meyer), Daniela Conrad (PhD student with
Dr. Elbert) and Maggie Sefton (PhD student with Dr. Meyer).

The goal of this 2-day workshop is to provide theoretical input on
epigenetics as an evolutionary component and important mechanism in the
development of (psycho)pathologies and evolutionary adaptations. In
addition, providing explanations on the processing and statistical
evaluation of epigenetic data, including hands-on exercises of small
pseudo-datasets. The workshop shall furthermore represent a platform
for the interdisciplinary exchange between biologists and psychologists
using epigenetic approaches to investigate the biological underpinnings of
(pathological) behavior and adaptation.

Confirmed speakers include: 
	
-       Dr. Tuncay Baubec is an SNF Professor in the Department of
        Molecular Mechanisms of Disease at the University of Zurich.

-       Dr. Vanja Vukojevic is a postdoc in the Department of Molecular
        Neurosciences at the University of Basel.

-       Dr. Bridgett vonHoldt is a professor in the Ecology and
        Evolutionary Biology Department at Princeton University.

-       Dr. Robert Philibert runs the Psychiatric Genetics lab at the
        University of Iowa.

-       Dr. Tomas Marques-Bonet leads the research group on comparative
        genomics at Universitat Pompeu Fabra.

We welcome any Masters and PhD students, postdocs, and any other young
scientists in the fields of evolutionary biology and psychology to join
us. Registration fees include a social dinner on a boat on Lake Konstanz
(July 24th), and farewell dinner at the Hotel St. Elisabeth in Hegne
(July 25th). Registration deadline for earlier-bird rate (50 euro)
is March 31st and for the normal rate (100 euro) is May 31st. Space is
limited to 35 people, so please register as soon as possible.

Accommodations can be found at the Hotel St. Elisabeth, however,
these rooms book rapidly and will require you to book well in advance
(www.st-elisabeth-hegne.de/en/hotel.html). Other accommodations can be
found in Konstanz with direct train connection to Hegne (~10-12 min ride).

Konstanz is a cozy town in the south of Germany, located near the border
to Switzerland. With direct access to beautiful Lake Konstanz and its
historical old town it is a favorite holiday destination for locals and
international tourists. Furthermore, the University of Konstanz is one of
the highest-ranking German universities. For many years, the University
of Konstanz belongs to the German Universities Excellence Initiative, and
is host to a large, international body of students from various fields.

Any questions in regards to the workshop can be found on our
website (http://adaptive-epigenomics.weebly.com/) or emailed to
epigenetics-workshop@uni-konstanz.de or directly to Amber Makowicz at
amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de

Many thanks for your assistance.

Cheers,
Amber 
-- 
Amber M. Makowicz, Ph.D.

Hector Postdoctoral Fellow
Room M821
Biology Department
Lehrstuhl für Zoologie und Evolutionsbiologie, 
University Konstanz, 
Universitätsstraβe 10, 78457 
Konstanz, Germany
+49 (0) 7531 884660

http://meyerlab-konstanz.weebly.com/dr-amber-makowicz.html

Amber Makowicz <amber.makowicz@uni-konstanz.de>
