Dear colleagues,

We welcome contributed talks in our symposium "Morphological Lazarisation:
when new technology brings life to historical specimens" at the
International Congress on Invertebrate Morphology in Moscow this August,
18th-23rd.  Museum specimens remain an invaluable part of our work and
are often of stunning quality, even in comparison with more recently
obtained material. We want to celebrate this, and the development of
modern techniques which help us bring these specimens back to new life.

We realise that there may be certain political and personal concerns
associated with attending this year's conference, and we want to
reassure you that we understand these concerns. Your support of science
without borders is very important to us and the International Society
for Invertebrate Morphology, to our host committee in Moscow and to
the wider community, so we hope that you will join us this summer to
celebrate research with our colleagues in Russia. Registration and
abstract submission are now open! Please do register when possible -
there are just two weeks left before the early bird deadline.

All presenting authors can submit one oral and one poster abstract. Please
do encourage others in your labs and networks to submit content for
the symposium - we would be delighted to have other researchers, at any
career stage, join us.

A quick breakdown of the various upcoming deadlines: www.icim4.com

1st February = Early bird registration deadline. Early bird registration
is 250 EUR, increasing to 280 EUR. Note that to request an invitation
letter for your visa application, you will need to complete the necessary
boxes in the registration form (marked 'for visa support').

31st March = Manuscript deadline for publication in Invertebrate
Zoology. If you wish to submit a manuscript related to the symposium,
the deadline for submissions is coming up at the end of March. See here
for more information.

30th April = Abstract and registration deadline. Note that to request an
invitation letter for your visa application, you will need to complete
the necessary boxes in the registration form (marked 'for visa support').

Regarding visas, we recommend that all speakers complete their
applications as soon as possible after receiving their letter of
invitation. There are further guidelines available here on the ICIM
website.www.icim4.com

Finally, we are collecting examples of new discoveries made using historic
specimens. If you have or know of a particularly interesting example,
we would love to hear about it!

Best wishes for the coming months,

Lauren Sumner-Rooney and Julia Sigwart

"j.sigwart@qub.ac.uk"

