One month to the deadline for registration!

EMBO, in collaboration with the Elixir-ITA, Isita and the IGB-CNR, is
pleased to inform you that the applications for the upcoming training
course on "Population Genomics: background and tools" are open.

IMPORTANT DATES for this Course:

Deadline for applications: 24/02/2017

Latest notification of acceptance: 10/03/2017

Course date: 18-26/05/2017

Venue: National Research Council, Institute of Genetics and Biophysics,
via P. Castellino 111, 80131 Naples, Italy

A maximum of 24 candidates will be selected based on their application.

Notifications of acceptance will be sent shortly after the closing date
of registration.

Full details, including the course programme and the application form,

at: http://meetings.embo.org/event/17-population-genomics

Instructors:

Aida Andres (Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Germany)
Andrea Manica (University of Cambridge, UK) Andrew Clark (Cornell
University, USA) Garrett Hellenthal (University College London, UK) Ida
Moltke (University of Copenhagen, Denmark) Martin Sikora (Natural History
Museum of Denmark, Denmark) Mathias Currat (Université de Genève,
Switzerland) Olivier Delaneau (Université de Genève, Switzerland)
Pascale Gerbault (University of Westminster, UK)

Course description

Study methods in population genomics have been profoundly reshaped in the
last few years thanks to the growing availability of complete genomic
sequences at population level. The rapid and recent growth of data
and methods calls for new approaches to become routine in evolutionary
genomics laboratories. The objective of this EMBO Practical Course is
to give an overview of state of the art methods in population genomics
combining lecturing from outstanding experienced population geneticists
and software developers. All conceptual innovation will be presented in
lectures and applied in practice both individually and in group work.

Practicals includes computer exercises supervised by lecturers and
training assistants. After attending the course participants will be
aware of up-to-date concepts in population genetics, capable of running
analyses using software based on whole genome data sequences and able
to deal with basic aspects of any population genomics project. This
EMBO Practical Course aims at evolutionary biologists who already have
bioinformatics skills. PhD students and Post-Doc researchers will benefit
the most out of this course, but applications from all candidates will
be evaluated in their context.

Thank you for your interest,

The Organisers

Chiara Batini (University of Leicester, UK) Vincenza Colonna (CNR,
Napoli, IT) Allegra Via (CNR, Bari, IT)

"Batini, Chiara (Dr.)" <cb334@leicester.ac.uk>
