Dear Colleagues,

The Natural History Museum, London and BBSRC are offering a one-week
introductory course ³Integrating molecules with taxonomy and systematics:
an introductory molecular phylogenetics course for species identification
and evolutionary analysis², to run from 8-12th May 2017. The course will
be taught by NHM scientists and will benefit anyone wishing to gain
expertise in molecular diagnostics and phylogenetic analysis for
systematic, taxonomic and ecological studies. Note that this course
assumes no prior experience with DNA sequence analyses and is an
introductory course. As such, it is not appropriate for more advanced
students. More information can be found here:
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/courses-and-students/integrating-molecules
-with-taxonomy-and-systematics.html

Summary: 
This one-week introductory-level course will teach participants the steps
involved to produce molecular phylogenies from raw Sanger and
next-generation sequence data (i.e. Illumina paired-end). A phylogeny is
essential for defining species boundaries, species identifications,
recognition of cryptic species, testing systematic hypotheses, identifying
evolutionary and biogeographic patterns and understanding the evolution of
traits. As such, knowing how to produce a robust tree is an indispensible
tool for modern taxonomists, systematists and evolutionary biologists. By
the time the participants have completed the course, they will have had
theoretical and practical experience enabling them to i) edit raw Sanger
and NGS sequence data, ii) carry out multiple sequence alignments, iii)
choose appropriate models of sequence evolution, iv) carry out
phylogenetic analyses (including Bayesian inference, maximum likelihood),
v) interpret tree topology and nodal support, vi) produce publication
ready trees, vii) work with public sequence repositories, vii) assemble
and annotate next generation sequence data, and viii) recognise cryptic
species.

Venue and duration: The Natural History Museum, London, UK. The course
will run for one week, 9.30am-6.00pm, 8-12th May 2017.

Eligibility and how to apply:
The course is available to anyone but please note that priority will be
given to applicants supported by BBSRC, working on a BBSRC grant or based
at a BBSRC institute. There are a maximum of 12 places available. The
course is sponsored by BBSRC and the NHM and we are charging only a
nominal fee of 300, which includes all course costs as well as
accommodation in London and some travel costs within the UK. Lunch and
light refreshments will be provided each day. To apply please use the
application form provided and return by the closing date: 31 March 2017.
Applications will be accepted up to the deadline and places will be
decided based on merit and suitability.

Email applications to: molec_NHMBBSRC@nhm.ac.uk (Note that this is an
automated email account ­ do not send queries. Your application will
receive a bounce back message so you know it has arrived safely).
Application forms can be found here:
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/courses-and-students/integrating-molecules
-with-taxonomy-and-systematics.html

Dr Suzanne Williams
Dept of Life Sciences
Natural History Museum
Cromwell Rd
London SW7 5BD
United Kingdom
Tel: + 44 (0) 207 942 5351

http://www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/staff-directory/zoology/s-williams/index.html

"s.williams@nhm.ac.uk" <s.williams@nhm.ac.uk>

