Dear colleagues,

A *small* workshop entitled "co-evolution, fitness landscapes and
epistasis" will take place in Paris, at the "Museum National d'Histoire
Naturelle", 1-3 March 2017.

The workshop aims at gathering scientists with various backgrounds
(biologists, computer scientists, physicists and mathematicians) who work
on the co-evolution within genomes, the fitness landscapes or even more
generally on epistasis. The working time will be evenly split between
presentations and questions / discussions. The list of confirmed speakers
is provided below.

It will start on wednesday (March the 1st) at lunch and will end on friday
(March the 3rd) at lunch.  Workshop registration is free but mandatory
(!). Meals expenses are not included but attendees will be encouraged
to join common lunches in restaurants nearby as well as the diner of
thursday evening. Travel and hotel expenses are also left to particpants.

The number of attendees is limited to 50. Few slots are available for
contributed talks.

To register to the workshop, please reply to this email (to
guillaume.achaz@mnhn.fr) and fill the following form:

- Full Name :
- Affiliation(s) :
- Email :

If you would like to present your work (beware that only few slots are
available), please also provide:

- a title
- a list of the author(s)
- an abstract.

** Confirmed speakers **

Thomas Bataillon (Université de Aarhus, DK)
Claudia Bank (Gulbenkian Institute, Lisbonne, PT)
Alessandra Carbone (UPMC, Paris, FR)
Kristina Crona (Washington DC, USA)
Luis-Miguel Chevin (CEPHE, Montpellier, FR)
Julien Dutheil (Institut Max Planck, Plön, DE)
Luca Ferretti  (Pribright Institute, UK)
Raphaël Guerrois (CEA, Paris, FR)
Joachim Krug (Université de Cologne, DE)
Thomas Lenormand (CEFE, Montpellier FR)
Guillaume Martin (ISEM, Montpellier, FR)
Sebastian Matuszewski (EPFL, Lausane, SW)
Olivier Tenaillon (Hopital Bichat, Paris, FR)
Richard Watson (Southampton University, UK)
Martin Weigt (UPMC, Paris, FR)
Daniel Weinreich (Brown University, Providence, US)

We hope to see you in Paris to share this exciting scientific event,

Yours sincerely,

The organizing comitee
(Guillaume Achaz, Sophie Brouillet, Mathilde Carpentier,
 Joël Pothier and Eduardo Rocha)

"guillaume.achaz@mnhn.fr" <guillaume.achaz@mnhn.fr>

