Hi everyone,

I am writing to solicit applications from junior researchers for a
5-minute talk in a "Spotlight Symposium" that, as an Associate Editor
at Evolution, I am organizing on a topic of my choice for the Society for
the Study of Evolution meetings in Portland, OR, June 23-27, 2017. Here
is how Spotlight Sessions are described by the meeting organizers:

"Spotlight Sessions are more focused than a typical session and have
a different format. First, the talks are solicited in advance. Second,
each of the six Spotlight Sessions will consist of 3 standard 15-minute
talks interspersed with sets of lightning (5-min) talks. We chose
this format by the logic that having several high-profile researchers
"anchoring" a session on a specific topic with a 15-minute talk
will make it more valuable for relatively junior researchers to give a
5-minute talk in a focused session with the right target audience and
other relevant and well-known speakers rather than giving a 15-minute
talk in a regular session."

My topic idea is "Sex in the Wild", which will focus on exciting work
relevant to the evolution/maintenance of reproductive mode polymorphism
in non-model organisms and/or using field-based approaches to study sex
(and its alternatives) in natural populations. It seems like a great
opportunity to highlight this relatively rare type of research, which
is absolutely critical to the study of sex but is often neglected in
favor of laboratory and/or model organism-focused studies.

The only problem is that we have no means to offset travel or meeting
costs, so I can't offer anything to the speakers besides a spot in
an exciting new type of symposium featuring awesome speakers at a great
meeting in a very fun city.

Please contact me (maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu) by Jan. 31, 2017 if you're
interested in being considered for a 5-minute talk and/or if you have
any questions. I will let you know whether you're selected by March
15, well in advance of the April 15, 2017 early registration discount
application deadline. If selected for this Spotlight Session, you will
register accordingly on the website. You can also sign up for a regular
talk, along with your Spotlight talk, if you'd like to do so.

All best wishes for 2017!
Maurine Neiman

Maurine Neiman
Associate Professor
Department of Biology
University of Iowa
143 BB, Iowa City IA, 52242, USA
maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu
http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/neiman/

"Neiman, Maurine" <maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu>

