Spotlight Symposium - Evolution Portland 2017

Conference: Portland.SSE_MaleComp&Speciation.Jun23-27

Sexual selection via male competition and the process of speciation

I am organizing a special Spotlight Symposium for this year's
Evolution meeting in Portland, focused on the role of male competition in
speciation. The meeting takes place June 23-27, 2017 in Portland Oregon.

The role of sexual selection in speciation remains controversial,
despite the last two decades of intensive work. The importance of male
competition has been almost entirely ignored, as nearly all the work
focuses exclusively on how female preferences generate sexual selection in
ways that hinder gene flow. This is despite that ecological competition
over resources plays a central role in speciation via natural selection,
and that male competition can generate very strong selection. However,
recent work suggests that incorporating both male competition and female
choice into research on speciation can help resolve the controversy
over whether and when sexual selection causes speciation, prevents it,
or has no real effect. Male competition sometimes complements and other
times opposes female choice, which can either accelerate or put a brake
on the speciation process, or lead to asymmetries in gene flow. Another
complexity is that males compete both before and after copulation
through sperm competition or the analogous pollen competition in plants;
including this component can draw interesting parallels between animal
and plant speciation.

I invite submissions for 5 minute 'Lightning Talks' that present
perspectives from behavior, ecology, and evolution in an explicitly
evolutionary framework with direct connections to speciation research.

Here's the low-down on Spotlight Sessions from the meeting organizers:

"Spotlight Sessions are more focused than a typical session and have a
different format. First, the talks are solicited in advance. Second, each
of the six Spotlight Sessions will consist of 3 standard 15-minute talks
interspersed with sets of lightning (5-min) talks. We chose this format
by the logic that having several high-profile researchers "anchoring"
a session on a specific topic with a 15-minute talk will make it more
valuable for relatively junior researchers to give a 5-minute talk in a
focused session with the right target audience and other relevant and
well-known speakers rather than giving a 15-minute talk in a regular
session."

Being part of this symposium can highlight your work in this up-and-coming
field in context with others interested in similar topics. You get to
help pave the way for this new type of symposium at an awesome meeting
in the fun city of Portland. Unfortunately, the society cannot compensate
your expenses for participating in this symposium.

Please contact me at boughman@msu.edu before
January 31, 2017 to indicate your interest in the symposium and send an
abstract. Also feel free to contact me if you have questions. I will
let you know whether you're selected by March 15, well in advance of
the April 15, 2017 early registration discount application deadline. If
selected for this Spotlight Session, you will register accordingly on
the website.  Best wishes to you!

Jenny Boughman 

Janette Boughman

Integrative Biology
Ecology, Evolutionary Biology & Behavior Program
BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action
Michigan State University
East Lansing MI 48824

boughman@msu.edu
https://www.msu.edu/user/boughman/index.html

Jenny Boughman <boughman@msu.edu>

