[FINAL NOTICE]
UC Davis WORKSHOP IN APPLIED PHYLOGENETICS
at Bodega Marine Laboratory, Bodega Bay, California

March 11-18, 2017

Sponsored by the University of California, Davis and Bodega Marine
Laboratory

website: http://treethinkers.org/

Introduction
Phylogenetic methods have revolutionized modern systematics and become
indispensable tools in evolution, ecology and comparative biology,
playing an increasingly important role in analyses of biological data
at all levels of organization ranging from molecules to ecological
communities. The estimation of phylogenetic trees is now a formalized
statistical problem with general agreement on the central issues and
questions. A nearly standard set of topics is now taught as part of
the curriculum at many colleges and universities. On the other hand,
application of phylogenetic methods to novel problems outside systematics
is an area of special excitement, innovation, and controversy, and
perspectives vary widely.

This Spring, for the seventeenth year, we will teach a workshop for
graduate students interested in applying phylogenetic methods to diverse
topics in biology. The one-week course is an intensive exploration
of problems to which modern phylogenetic approaches are being applied
and the most current statistical tools and approaches that are used to
solve those problems. We cover a wide range of topics in comparative
phylogenetics. The course starts with recent advances in phylogenetic
inference, and then focuses on methods for making inferences from
phylogenies.

The course will be held at the Bodega Marine Laboratory on the beautiful
Northern California coast, which has on-site housing. The course
format will involve equal parts of lecture and hands-on software
training (with an emphasis on performing analyses using RevBayes:
http://revbayes.github.io/about.html). One afternoon during the week
will be left free for field trips to local natural areas.

Topics Covered
*          Estimating, evaluating and interpreting phylogenetic trees
*          Recent advances in Bayesian inference of phylogeny
*          Model specification issues: model selection, adequacy and
           uncertainty
*          Diagnosing MCMC performance
*          Divergence-time estimation: relaxed clocks, fossil
           calibration
*          Species-tree estimation and species delimitation
*          Character evolution: ancestral-state estimation, rates of
           trait evolution
*          Lineage diversification: detecting rate shifts, testing key-
           innovation hypotheses

Prerequisites
Available housing limits course enrollment to ~30 students. Preference
is given to doctoral candidates who are in the early to middle stages of
their thesis research, and who have completed sufficient prerequisites
(through previous coursework or research experience) to provide some
familiarity with phylogenetic methods. Unfortunately, because of limits on
class size, postdocs and faculty are generally discouraged from applying.

Admission and Fees
Students will be admitted based on academic qualifications and
appropriateness of research interests. The course fee is $750. This
includes room and board at BML for duration of the course (arriving March
11, leaving March 18) and return transportation from Davis to the Bodega
Marine Labs.

Application Deadline
Applications are due by January 31, 2017. Please send a completed
application form and one letter of recommendation from your
major advisor. Applications should be sent via email as PDFs to
mikeryanmay@gmail.com. Students will be notified via e-mail by February 4,
2017 of acceptance.

Application Forms and Information
Visit the Bodega website for additional information and to download an
application form: http://treethinkers.org/

Send all application materials to:

Mike May
Department of Evolution and Ecology
5343 Storer Hall
University of California Davis
Davis, CA
95616
email: mikeryanmay@gmail.com
