UCLA/La Kretz Workshop in Conservation Genomics, 25 - 29 March, 2017
Conservation biology, genetics, and evolutionary biology have had a
long and intimate relationship, and conservation constitutes one of the
key applications of evolutionary analysis to real-world biological
problems. The impacts of population and landscape genetics and gene
expression studies have been particularly striking, and are helping to
solve some of the most pressing problems in biological conservation.

As the field of conservation genetics continues to grow and mature, the
availability of genome-scale data stand to make profound new
contributions to our ability to identify and protect at-risk
populations and recover those that are most endangered. However,
genomic analyses also carry a heavy burden--data sets are enormous,
often requiring diverse computational approaches for assembly, quality
control and analysis.

The La Kretz annual workshop provides a comfortable, rigorous, but
informal training environment for a small group of motivated graduate
students to explore how conservation problems can best be addressed
with genomic-level data. Our goal is to provide hands-on experience in
the efficient collection, troubleshooting, and analysis of large data
sets for conservation-relevant problems. One of the highlights of our
workshop is active participation from members of several governmental
agencies who are at the forefront of endangered species protection and
management, providing a forum for exploring the most relevant aspects
of conservation genomics to managers.

The UCLA/La Kretz workshop is held at the La Kretz Field Station
(https://www.ioes.ucla.edu/santa-monica-mountains-research/) and Stunt
Ranch Reserve (http://stuntranch.ucnrs.org/) in the heart of the Santa
Monica Mountains. Only 30 miles from UCLA and the LAX airport, but
nestled in the relatively undeveloped 160,000 acre Santa Monica
Mountains National Recreation Area, the Field Station/Stunt Reserve
provides an ideal location to explore new developments in genomic
science and pressing needs in conservation and management together in a
single setting.

Our current instructor list, drawn from UCLA faculty and several other
partner institutions, includes:
Ben Fitzpatrick (U. Tennessee Knoxville)
Kirk Lohmueller
Evan McCartney-Melstad
Ian Wang (UC Berkeley, tentative)
Brad Shaffer
Victoria Sork
Bob Wayne
Ying Zhen
Erin Toffelmier
Alice Mouton/Devaughn Fraser
Emily Curd/Zach Gold
Agency partners represented include:
USGS
BLM
USFWS
CDFW

Topics covered include:
Overview of traditional conservation genetics
Next generation platforms: the best tool for the job
Data management pipelines:
Quality Control
Data storage
Data organization
Data types and analyses:
SNPs
Sequences
Exploring very large data sets
Functional genomic data
RNA-seq
RADseq pipelines, from raw reads to analyzing data
Genomic data and GIS
Visualizing geographic structure and demographic history
Admixture, clines, and hybridization
Detecting adaptive variation
RNAseq in a conservation context
eDNA as an emerging tool
Prerequisites:
Available housing limits course enrollment to ~20 students. Preference
will be given to masters and doctoral candidates who are in the early
to middle stages of their thesis research, and who have some
familiarity with using a command line interface or programming
languages (i.e. Perl, python etc.). We also welcome applications from
postdocs, faculty, and government researchers, although our top
priority is graduate student applicants. We encourage applications from
women, minorities, and individuals from under-represented demographics
in the sciences.

Admission and Fees:
Applicants will be admitted based on academic qualifications and
appropriateness of research interests. The course fee is $425. This
includes food and lodging at the La Kretz Field Station, as well as any
incidental fees, for the duration of the course (arriving Saturday
March 25, departing Thursday March 30).

This year, the workshop is co-sponsored by a UC Catalyst program grant,
which will provide some student support and staffing. University of
California students from any campus may apply for partial support (up
to $225) from the newly awarded Conservation Genomics Consortium
(https://ucconservationgenomics.eeb.ucla.edu/) funded under the UC
Catalyst program. To do so, simply note in your application that you
would like to apply for this partial support.

UCLA students are encouraged to take the La Kretz Workshop for graduate
credit. Other UC students may also be able to take the course for
credit.

Application Forms and Information:
Visit the UCLA/La Kretz Center for California Conservation Science
website for additional information:
https://www.ioes.ucla.edu/lakretz/our-work/la-kretz-annual-workshop-con
servation-genomics/
Download an application form:
https://www.ioes.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/2017-La-Kretz-Conservation
-Genomics-Application-1.pdf
Application Deadline:
Applications are due by February 5, 2017. Please send a completed
application form and a short letter of recommendation from your major
advisor. Students will be notified via e-mail by February 10, 2017 of
acceptance.

Applications should be emailed as a single PDF (including the letter of
recommendation) to:
Mario Colon, (mario.colon@ucla.edu). Please note if you are a
University of California student or postdoc, and if so, whether you are
requesting financial assistance.

Mario Colon <mario.colon@ucla.edu>

