*Symposium and Workshop on Ecology and Evolution of Plant Reproduction, 24
- 30 April 2017*

Greetings All!

We are pleased to welcome you to the international *Symposium and Workshop
on Ecology and Evolution of Plant Reproduction*, at Universidade Federal de
Mato Grosso do Sul (UFMS), supported by the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology (ESEB).

The *symposium* will be held on *April 24 and 25, 2017* at UFMS in Campo
Grande. It is open for presentation of recent studies by researchers and
students in all fields of evolution and ecology of plant reproduction. The
meeting will be composed of 4 sessions each with a 40-minute plenary and
6-8 contributed 15-20 minute talks per session. The sessions are:

Session I - Pollination, mating and floral evolution,

Plenary speaker Lawrence Harder (Univ. of Calgary)

Session II - Gender strategies and the evolution of plant sexual systems,

Plenary speaker John Pannell (Univ. of Lausanne)

Session III - Genetics and genomics of plant reproduction,

Plenary speaker Stephen Wright (Univ. of Toronto)

Session IV - Applied reproductive biology,

Plenary speaker Marcelo Aizen (Conicet)

Abstracts for talks and posters should be submitted via the conference
website (http://plantevol.sites.ufms.br/) by March 15.

The *workshop* will follow from *April 26 to 30, 2017* at the UFMS field
station in the Pantanal wetland, a spectacular location with a diverse
flora and fauna. The main goal of the workshop is to address a general lack
of expertise in many approaches central to future progress in plant
evolutionary biology, by teaching techniques for problem solving and new
skill sets used in innovative research in evolutionary ecology, genomics
and applied ecology and evolution. It is intended for graduate students and
post-doctoral fellows working on the ecology and evolution of plant
reproduction. Five distinguished faculty with diverse backgrounds in plant
ecology and evolutionary biology will teach the workshop:

Spencer Barrett (Univ. of Toronto)

Lawrence Harder (Univ. of Calgary)

John Pannell (Univ. of Lausanne)

Marcelo Aizen (Conicet)

Stephen Wright (Univ. of Toronto)

Available housing limits course enrollment to ~20 students.

For application forms and more detailed information, please visit the
official website of the event: http://plantevol.sites.ufms.br/ or get in
contact by *plantevol2017@gmail.com*

We believe that both the symposium and workshop will offer great
opportunities for graduate students and faculty members to meet one
another, exchange ideas, learn new approaches and collaborate. We are
confident that your support will promote the success of this initiative and
the growth of plant evolutionary biology in Brazil and other Latin American
countries.

We look forward to meeting you at UFMS, Brazil in April 2017

Yours Sincerely

Nicolay Leme da Cunha PhD

Chair of the Organizing Committee

Ecology and Evolution of Plant Reproduction

(nicolaycunha@gmail.com)

Nicolay Cunha <nicolaycunha@gmail.com>

