Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics Workshop

Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington, 5-9 June 2017

Non-credit workshop.
Participants arrive at Friday Harbor Labs on Sunday, June 4, lectures and
exercises occur June 5-9, and participants depart on Saturday, June 10, 2017.

Application deadline March 1, 2017.
Application forms and details here:
  http://tinyurl.com/EQG2017
Web page:
  http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/studentSummer2017.html#SumB-genetics

Instructors:

Dr. Joe Felsenstein
Department of Genome Sciences
University of Washington, Seattle
joe@gs.washington.edu

Dr. Stevan J. Arnold
Department of Integrative Biology
Oregon State University, Corvallis
stevan.arnold@oregonstate.edu

Previous versions of this 5-day workshop were given at the National
Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCENT) at Duke University in Durham, North
Carolina from 2011-2013, and then at the National Institute for Mathematical
and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS) at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville
from 2014-2016. Like past versions, the Friday Harbor version will review the
basics of theory in the field of evolutionary quantitative genetics and its
connections to evolution observed at various time scales. The aim of the
workshop is to build a bridge between the traditionally separate disciplines of
quantitative genetics and comparative methods.

Quantitative genetic theory for natural populations was developed considerably
in the period from 1970 to 1990 and up to the present, and it has been applied
to a wide range of phenomena including the evolution of differences between the
sexes, sexual preferences, life history traits, plasticity of traits, as well
as the evolution of body size and other morphological measurements. Textbooks
have not kept pace with these developments, and currently few universities
offer courses in this subject aimed at evolutionary biologists. Evolutionary
biologists need to understand this field because of the ability to collect
large amounts of data by computer, the development of statistical methods for
changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for changes in a single species
through time, and the realization that quantitative characters will not soon be
fully explained by genomics. This workshop aims to fill this need by reviewing
basic aspects of theory and illustrating how that theory can be tested with
data, both from single species and with multiple-species phylogenies.
Participants will use R, an open-source statistical programming language, to
build and test evolutionary models.

The workshop involves lectures and in-class computer exercises. You can
consult the 2016 tutorial website for examples, it will be found at
  http://www.nimbios.org/tutorials/TT_eqg2016
The intended participants for this
tutorial are graduate students, post-docs, and junior faculty members in
evolutionary biology. The workshop can accommodate up to 35 participants. Guest
instructors will include:

* Marguerite Butler, Biology, Univ. Hawai'i, Mānoa
* Patrick Carter, Evolutionary Physiology, Washington State University, Pullman
* Adam Jones, Biology, Texas A&M University, College Station
* Brian O'Meara, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville
* Josef Uyeda, Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg

Cost: $1000 to be paid to Friday Harbor Laboratories. This fee will cover
housing and meals at FHL and all other workshop expenses, except travel.
Participants who have been admitted to attend will make their payment prior to
arrival at FHL. Details of payment by credit card or check will be provided
once the applicant has been admitted to attend.

Joe Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu>

