ESEB 2017 WORKSHOP: SCIENCE POLICIES: HOW SHOULD EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY BE FUNDED?

We would like to invite you to participate in a discussion workshop
on funding and scientific quality to be held during the upcoming ESEB
conference in Groningen (20-25 August 2017).

Open: To all researchers attending the ESEB conference (no additional costs)
Time: Thursday, 24 August, 13:30-15:30
Place: Room X
Organizers: Stephanie Meirmans and Maurine Neiman

The main goal of our workshop is to trigger a translatable discussion
of how funding affects scientific quality, what scientific quality is,
and whether and how the current funding system could improve. We invite
you as active researchers to participate and make contributions to this
discussion. Our workshop focus is particularly topical because of recent
changes in how science is funded worldwide: increasingly, funding is both
assessed by internal scientific quality and by external criteria such
as societal relevance and technological-economic impact. These changes
have created across-country differences in funding policies, inviting
a critical systematic reflection that could have real impact in a time
when funding policies are in a phase of transition in many countries.

The workshop will consist of a short comment on this topic by ESEB
founder Stephen Stearns, two panel discussions, and one talk by an
internationally recognized invited speaker with direct involvement in
research funding, Leslie Rissler (US National Science Foundation). The
two panels will consist of Roger Butlin, George Gilchrist, Hanna Kokko,
and Stephen Stearns (Panel 1), and Anne Charmantier, Jan Engelstädter,
Astrid Groot, Kayla King, Pleuni Pennings and Jane Reid (Panel 2).
The audience will be invited to actively participate in the discussion,
so please come prepared with questions and insights.

This event is funded by the American Genetic Association (AGA).

We are looking forward to seeing you at our workshop!

Best wishes, Stephanie and Maurine

For organizational purposes, please let the organizers know as soon as
possible that you plan to attend the workshop:

Stephanie Meirmans, Leiden University, Netherlands (s.meirmans@hum.leidenuniv.nl)
Maurine Neiman, University of Iowa, USA (maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu)

maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu

