Dear colleagues,

Registration is open for the course AN INTRODUCTION TO METAGENOMICS AND
METABARCODING.

Dates: March 19-23, 2018.

Place: Heraklion (Crete, Greece).

Instructor: Dr. M. Lisandra Zepeda-Mendoza (Chr. Hansen - Bacterial
Physiology & Improvement, Denmark).

Metagenomics is the study of the collection of genomes in an
environment. Environments as diverse as Antarctic lakes, hot springs,
or the human gut can be biologically characterized by extracting and
sequencing DNA from samples taken from them. A characteristic of many
of these samples is their complexity, posing difficulties to their
analysis and characterization. However, metagenomics allows the
taxonomic and functional characterization of samples. These two kinds
of characterizations also enable the comparison of different habitats
for biodiversity assessment.

In this course students will be introduced to the command line
environment used to analyze high-throughput sequencing data (HTS). The
initial cleaning steps that must be performed on every HTS dataset will
be described and we will use the processed data for proper functional
and taxonomical characterization of a metagenomic dataset. We will use
methods such as mapping to whole genome databases, de novo assembly,
gene annotation, building of non-redundant gene catalogue, and
metagenomic species concept identification. Due to the wide usage
of metabarcoding for the taxonomic characterization of an environment,
we will also discuss amplicon sequencing strategies and data analysis.
The course will be based on both theory and hands-on exercises.

More information:
http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/genetics-and-genomics/introd
uction-metagenomics-metabarcoding/ or writing to
courses.crete@transmittingscience.org

This course is organized by Transmitting Science.

Best regards

Sole

Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD.
Scientific Director
Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org

Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno <soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org>

