SICB_SanFrancisco Workshop PositiveSelectionPolarOrganisms Jan3rd

Workshop Announcement: Best practices for using NGS-based datasets to
determine statistically robust evidence of positive selection and
convergent evolution of polar organisms.

 We will conduct a NSF-funded workshop using cross-disciplinary
approaches for determining genetic adaptations in polar organisms using
Next Generation Sequencing-based datasets. In particular, this workshop
will focus on the following:

 1) Establish collaborative research groups to test for genes under
positive selection from diverse polar organisms using genomic and
transcriptomic datasets.

 2) Evaluate current analytical methods for determining positively
selected genes and their statistical significance.

 3) Explore current and novel methodologies for detecting genetic
modifications acquired through convergent evolution in response to
similar environmental conditions.

 4) Review lab-based protocols for demonstrating the potential
functions of candidate genes. Specifically, we will focus on techniques
amenable to frozen or otherwise preserved samples that can be
accomplished at the home institutional laboratory.

 We will conduct a full-day meeting (9am-5pm) before the start of the
next two conference meetings of the Society for Integrative and
Comparative Biology (San Francisco, CA and Tampa, FL, January 3rd, 2018
and 2019, respectively) with collaborative work among the research
groups during the interim period. The requested funds will be used to
reimburse the costs of travel to each meeting (up to $300/meeting),
SICB meeting registration, and one night of lodging (up to
$200/meeting), for all workshop participants per meeting. Workshop
participants will contribute to a final report summarizing our findings
that will be available through the iDigBio website. We will also
publish a multi-authored paper based on the relative contributions of
participants towards data acquisition, NGS-based analyses, and the
review of lab-based protocols.

 Prospective participants should have documented research backgrounds
in ONE or more of the following categories: 1) NGS-based studies of
polar organisms, 2) Methodologies for determining genes under positive
selection or showing evidence of convergent evolution (PAML, HyPHy,
Phytools, etc.), 3) Phylogenomics of polar organisms, and 4)
Physiological adaptations of polar organisms.

 To apply please email scott.santagata@liu.edu (due date:09/06/17) with
one attached PDF document containing: A) Current CV and B) One-page
description detailing your experience in the research backgrounds
listed above, and how this workshop fits into your overall career
goals. Graduate students, post-doctoral researchers, and early career
investigators from underrepresented groups are encouraged to apply.
Applications may be accepted after the due date depending on the number
of applicants and amount of available funds. The preliminary list of
agreed participants currently includes investigators, post-doctoral
researchers, and graduate students from Auburn University, California
State University-Long Beach, Central Michigan University, Long Island
University-Post, University of Alabama-Tuscaloosa, University of
California-Santa Barbara, University of Florida, and the University of
Hawaii.

Scott Santagata, Associate Professor
Department of Biology
Life Sciences Building, Room 261
Long Island University-Post Campus
720 Northern Blvd.
Greenvale, NY 11548-1300
Phone:516-299-3029
Email:scott.santagata@liu.edu
LIU
Website: http://www.liu.edu/CWPost/Academics/Faculty/Faculty/S/Scott-Sa
ntagata
Labpage: http://sites.google.com/site/scottsantagata/
Researchgate: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Scott_Santagata

Scott Santagata <scott.santagata@liu.edu>

