Next Generation Biologists: Essential Computing Skills for Molecular
Biology is a BBSRC-STARs programme-funded project to introduce and train
researchers in the essential skills and best practices in scientific
computing and bioinformatics. The format of the materials and the
nature of the delivery is based on the successful "Software Carpentry"
(http://software-carpentry.org/) blended-learning model where students
learn by developing skills through hands-on live coding and peer
programming sessions led by experienced Software Carpentry instructors
and supported by a small team of helpers. This is the second workshop
in the series.

AUDIENCE
The workshop is aimed at researchers with little or no experience in
programming and data analysis who nevertheless need these approaches in
their research in the life sciences.

ORGANISERS AND INSTRUCTORS
The main organisers of the workshops are Dr Mary J. O'Connell
(@Evol_Molly), Dr Martin Callaghan (both at the University of Leeds)
and Dr Jarek Bryk (@jarekbryk at the University of Huddersfield). Drs
Callaghan and Bryk are Software Carpentry Instructors. The project
is a joint initiative of the University of Leeds and the University
of Huddersfield.

PRELIMINARY PROGRAMME
Monday
Introduction to the fundamentals of UNIX, command-line interface and shell.

Tuesday
Introduction to fundamentals of R with R Studio, including data
and analysis reproducibility, concluded with example analysis of
high-throughput data.

Wednesday
A "hackathon" day, during which participants will use skills learned
in earlier days to solve a real-life data analysis problem of their
choosing or a walk-through of an analysis of a real-life dataset using
learned skills in shell and R.

DATE
The workshop will be run on the 13-15th September 2017 (Wednesday to
Friday inclusive).

VENUE
The workshop will take place at the University of Huddersfield, UK.

COSTS
The workshop is free of charge for all BBSRC-funded researchers, as well
as staff and students from the Universities of Leeds and Huddersfield. For
all other participants a course fee of 170 will apply that will need
to be paid before the workshop begins. Travel and accommodation costs
are *not* covered by the organisers.

HOW TO APPLY
To apply for a place on the workshop, prepare a maximum one-page long
curriculum vitae and a 200 word statement detailing why this course if
of particular importance to your current research. Please combine the
two *into a single pdf file* and send it to Dr Mary J. O'Connell
at m.oconnell[at]leeds.ac.uk *by midnight 31st August 2017*.  The
selection committee will notify successful applicants by the end of
1st September. The workshop will be limited to 25 participants, who are
expected to bring their own computers on the workshop.

More details about the project and the workshop are available on our
website at http://nextgenbiologists.org. We are also on Twitter at
@nextgenbiol (the "l" is important :-).

--
  Jarek Bryk
  School of Applied Sciences
  University of Huddersfield
  Queensgate, Huddersfield HD1 3DH
  Office JP3/17 | Tel. +44 (0) 1484 47 2708
  j.bryk@hud.ac.uk | @jarekbryk | bryklab.net | nextgenbiologists.org
  orcid.org/0000-0002-2791-9709

University of Huddersfield inspiring tomorrow's professionals.

Jarek Bryk <J.Bryk@hud.ac.uk>

