TITLE:
Predator-Prey Interactions Gordon Conference: Registration now open
BODY:

Third Gordon Research Conference on Predator-Prey Interactions

January 28 - February 2, 2018, Ventura, California

http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=16781

2018 Theme:"Scaling Across Space and Time"

Gordon Research Conferences are recognized as the "world's premier
scientific conferences", where leading investigators from around the
globe meet biennially for a full week of intense discussion of the
frontier research in their field. We have an outstanding list of
confirmed speakers and contributors (below). Our meeting is capped at
200 people, and filling up fast;  so please register soon!

The neurobiology of responses to risk in individual prey can, when
aggregated across a population, profoundly affect surrounding
ecosystems. Similarly, researchers are increasingly aware of how
quickly selection and epigenetic forces can shift prey phenotypes and
alter future interactions with predators. In both cases, the
connections between small-scale (within an individual or at a single
point in time) and large-scale (across ecosystems or generations)
processes illustrate how exploring the 'linkage map' of predator-prey
interactions across scales can identify new fields of research and
synergize the collaborations necessary to address them. We have
targeted the most exciting advances in predator-prey work across
multiple fields, with each speaker agreeing to share their latest
unpublished findings. In order to encourage active participation from
everyone at the conference, all attendees are strongly encouraged to
present a poster on their work.

The complete program is available, along with further details
concerning registration, at our website
(http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=16781).

Sessions and Confirmed Speakers

Predator-prey interactions in the field and lab

Joel Berger, Caroline Blanchard (speakers)

Jacqueline Blundell & Evan Preisser (discussion leaders)

Evolutionary underpinnings of predator-prey interactions

John Orrock, Catherine Matassa, Robyn Crook, Robby Stoks (speakers)

Sonny Bleicher (discussion leader)

Predators at the landscape level

Elizabeth Madin, Trisha Atwood, Stephanie Periquet

Shelby Rinehart (discussion leader)

Prey responses to predator cues

Ted Stankowich, Grant Brown, William Resetarits, Mark Berry

Adam Crane (discussion leader)

Neural responses to predators

Gwyneth Card, Rupshi Mitra, Cornelius Gross

Newton Canteras (discussion leader)

Neurobiology of fear

Ken Lukowiak, Arun Asok, Gal Richter-Levin, Marta Moita

Wen Han Tong (discussion leader)

Carnivores in natural and managed landscapes

Doug Smith, Justin Suraci, Mathew Crowther

Rebecca Selden (discussion leader)

Transgenerational impacts of stress

Tracy Langkilde, Michael Sheriff, Brian Dias, Regina Sullivan

Michael Clinchy (discussion leader)

Past, present, and future directions in fear and predator-prey research

James Estes, Liana Zanette

Maud Ferrari & Ajai Vyas (discussion leaders)

Evan Preisser, Professor & Chair
Dept. of Biological Sciences, University of Rhode Island
9 E. Alumni Ave., Kingston RI 02881 USA
(401) 874-2120; preisser@uri.edu; http://web.uri.edu/preisserlab

Evan Preisser <preisser@uri.edu>

