
Introduction to Python for biologists
5-9
December 2016 in Berlin, GermanyInstructor: Dr Martin Jones
Application deadline is: November 21st , 2016.

Overview:
Python is a dynamic, readable language that is a popular platform for
all types of bioinformatics work, from simple one-off scripts to large,
complex software projects. This workshop is aimed at complete beginners
and assumes no prior programming experience.
 It gives an overview of the language with an emphasis on practical
 problem-solving, using examples and exercises drawn from various
 aspects of bioinformatics work. After completing the workshop,
 students should be in a position to (1) apply the skills they have
 learned to tackling problems in their own research and (2) continue
 their Python education in a self-directed way. All course materials
 (including copies of presentations, practical exercises, data files,
 and example scripts prepared by the instructing team) will be provided
 electronically to participants.

Intended audience:
This workshop is aimed at all researchers and technical workers with
a background in biology who want to learn programming. The syllabus
has been planned with complete beginners in mind; people with previous
programming experience are welcome to attend as a refresher but may find
the pace a bit slow. If in doubt, take a look at the detailed session
content below or drop Martin Jones (martin@pythonforbiologists.com)
an email.

Teaching format:
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see the detailed
curriculum below). Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture
followed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks at the
organizer's discretion. There will also be plenty of time for students
to discuss their own problems and data.

Assumed background:
Students should have enough biological background to appreciate the
examples and exercise problems (i.e. they should know about DNA and
protein sequences, what translation is, and what introns and exons
are). No previous programming experience or computer skills (beyond the
ability to use a text editor) are necessary, but you'll need to have a
laptop with Python installed.

Course programme:
Monday 5th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 1-. Introduction
Session 2-Output and text manipulation

Tuesday 6th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 3-File IO and user interfaces
Session 4. Flow control 1 : loops

Wednesday 7th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 5-Flow control 2 : conditionals
Session6- Organizing and structuring code

Thursday 17th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session-7. Regular expressions
Session 8-Dictionaries

Friday 18th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Session 9-Interaction with the filesystem
Session-10-Optional free afternoon to cover previous modules and discuss data

Further information:
The cost is 555 euros (VAT included) including refreshments and
course materials. We also offer an all-inclusive package at 795
euros(VAT included), including breakfast, lunch, dinner, refreshments,
accommodation, course and transfer from/to the main city's airports.

Please feel free to contact us if you need any further information:
info@physalia-courses.org

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: &#43;49 15771084054

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>
