Winter School - Bioinformatics for Adaptation Genomics (B@G3 2017)

DATE: February 5-11, 2017

Reminder for the Winter School of Bioinformatics for Adaptation Genomics.
The registration deadline is approaching fast. Applications need to be
submitted by November 20th 2016.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES
The application of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies
to non-model organisms is now well-established and has unlocked
new frontiers for research on adaptation genomics. Despite recent
technological developments enabling an increasing number of projects
to use genome-scale data, the analysis of such complex data sets still
raises substantial hurdles for researchers with primarily a biological
background. Bioinformatic pipelines offer an invaluable resource to
process genomic data, but their underlying rationale often remains hard
to understand, which poses significant challenges for their rigorous use
and for the accurate interpretation of the results. The B@G Winter School
provides an opportunity for researchers to penetrate the 'black box'
behind the complex bioinformatics approaches available for investigating
adaptation genomics throughout the analytical pipeline; from the programs
and assumptions necessary to produce a high quality SNP dataset to the
in-depth interpretation of methods designed to address key evolutionary
questions. B@G teachers are established scientists with a primary role in
the development of widely used bioinformatic software, and will provide
insights into the foundations of the algorithms and suggest best practice
in experimental design and analysis.

AUDIENCE
The School is primarily aimed at evolutionary biologists and
bioinformaticians who want to gain deeper knowledge on state-of-the-art
methods used to detect evolutionary patterns from genome-wide nucleotide
data. Applications from early career researchers (PhD and post-doctoral
level), as well as faculty with a background in ecology, genetics,
or bioinformatics, will be considered. The workshop is particularly
aimed at candidates with experience of the Unix environment and with
preliminary knowledge on analytical pipelines for genomic data.

VENUE
The school will be hosted at the Alexander & Gerbi Hotel in Weggis,
Switzerland (http://www.alexander-gerbi.ch).

COST
Total fee for participants is 750.- CHF. This includes tuition and
accommodation in double rooms with full board (Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner
and coffee breaks) at the Alexander & Gerbi Hotel during the workshop. A
limited number of single rooms may be available upon request at an
additional fee of 300.- CHF.

REGISTRATION
The workshop will be limited to 30 participants. We ask that all
interested participants submit a cover letter (1 page max) detailing
their research interests, their level of bioinformatics experience, and
motivation for attending the workshop, as well as their CV (2 pages max)
to BioinfAdapt@env.ethz.ch by November 20th 2016.  Participants will be
notified of the outcome of the selection process by December 5th 2016.

SCHOOL LECTURERS
Dr. Jonathan Puritz - Marine Science Center, Northeastern University, USA
Website: http://www.marineevoeco.com
Mr. Erik Garrison - Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK
Website: http://hypervolu.me/~erik/erik_garrison.html
Prof. Dr. Alex Buerkle - University of Wyoming, USA
Website: http://www.uwyo.edu/buerkle/
Dr. Anders Albrechtsen - Bioinformatics Centre, Copenhagen University, Denmark
Website: http://popgen.dk/albrecht/web/WelcomePage.html
Prof. Dr. Daniel Wegmann - University of Fribourg, Switzerland
Website: http://www.unifr.ch/biochem/index.php?id=789
ORGANISERS
Dr. Simone Fior, ETH Zurich (simone.fior@env.ethz.ch)
Dr. Martin C. Fischer, ETH Zurich (martin.fischer@env.ethz.ch)
Dr. Stefan Zoller, GDC-ETH Zurich (stefan.zoller@env.ethz.ch)
Prof. Dr. Alex Widmer, ETH Zurich (alex.widmer@env.ethz.ch)

Funded by Adaptation to a Changing Environment (ACE) initiative, ETH
Zürich, Switzerland

For more information:
http://www.adaptation.ethz.ch/education/winter-school-2017.html

