Dear colleagues,

Registration is open for the course "Introduction to Phylogenetic Inference and
its Applications".

Dates: June 26th-30th, 2017.

Instructors: Dr. Miquel Arnedo (Universitat de Barcelona, Spain) y Dr. Salvador
Carranza (Institut of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-UPF, Spain).

PLACE: Facilities of the Centre de Restauració i Interpretació Paleontologica,
Els Hostalets de Pierola, Barcelona (Spain). 

During this course instructors will guide attenders and will provide training in
conceptual and practical aspects of biological systematics. They will present
the main methods of phylogenetic inference (parsimony, maximum likelihood and
Bayesian inference), evolutionary models, data combinability, the estimation of
divergence times and the use of quantitative approaches to species delimitation.
Moreoverm in hands on computer sessions, we will introduce the most widely used
computer programs for building alignments, selecting evolutionary models,
inferring trees under alternative assumptions, estimating divergence times and
delimiting species.

The participants are welcome to bring their own data and problems to be used
during the practical sessions.

The course is aimed at advanced undergrads, PhD students, post-docs and faculty
interested in the use of phylogenies for addressing evolutionary and ecological
questions but with limited background in systematics and phylogenetic inference.
All participants must bring their own personal laptop.

Registration and more info:
http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/phylogeny/introduction-phylogenetic-inference-applications/

PROGRAM:
http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/phylogeny/introduction-phylogenetic-inference-applications/#program

This course is organized by Transmitting Science, the Institut Català de
Paleontologia and the Centre de Restauració i Interpretació Paleontologica.

With best regards

Sole

Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD.
Scientific Director
Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org

soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org

