--Apple-Mail=_E066925B-8191-4F8B-AE47-557A2E591B7D
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset=utf-8

We would like to announce the Ecological Immunology Workshop 2017 on:

Insect immunity: genomics, microbiome, applications

  28th August to 1st September 2017 in Blossin (close to Berlin), Germany.

This workshop will bring together researchers interested in ecological
immunology with a focus on insects, and with diverse scientific
backgrounds ranging from molecular biology to ecology. The hallmark
of these workshops, started in 2001, is the open atmosphere fostering
free exchange by keeping it an affordable, small conference (100
participants). The format consists of eighteen invited speakers,
contributed talks and a dedicated poster. Long breaks provide plenty
of opportunity for informal exchange. Past workshops have initiated new
collaborations and ideas focusing on frontier research that has not been
published. The premises are basic but in a beautiful location conducive
to the success of the meeting. We will be located at a lakeside, which
at this time of the year offers great swimming and canoeing, and a small
private bar at the harbour [http://www.blossin.de].

Program and invited speakers

Genomics and functional work in the wild

Seth Barribeau, University of Liverpool
Nicole Gerardo, Emory University
Brian Lazzaro, Cornell University
Hinrich Schulenburg, University of Kiel
Ann Tate, University of Texas
Lumi Viljakainen, University of Oulu
Chris Wheat, University of Stockholm

Host-symbiont interactions affecting host immunity 

Nichole Broderick, University of Connecticut
Ewa Chrostek, MPI Infection Biology
Ellen Decaesteker, University of Leuven
Abdelaziz Heddi, INSA-Lyon
Martin Kaltenpoth, University of Mainz
David Schneider, Stanford University

Applying ecological immunology 

Lena Bayer-Wilfert, University of Essex
Astrid Groot, University of Amsterdam
Dino McMahon, Free University Berlin
Brian Weiss, Yale University
Ken Wilson, University of Lancaster

Important dates
Registration will open on 15th January 2016
The deadline for abstract submission of oral and poster presentations
is 31st March 2017

Registration fee will include accommodation and catering (all meals)

We will announce the website with more information shortly before
registration will open.

We are looking forward to welcoming you at the Ecological Immunology
Workshop 2017.

Kind regards,

Organizing Committee
Jens Rolff, Free University of Berlin
Oliver Otti, University of Bayreuth
Paul Schmid-Hempel, ETH Zurich

If you have any questions concerning the meeting please do not hesitate to e-mail us:
oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de (program)
magdalena.nagel@fu-berlin.de (travel and registration)

Dr. Oliver Otti
Animal Population Ecology
Animal Ecology I
University of Bayreuth
Universitätsstrasse 30
95440 Bayreuth
Germany

phone: +49921552646
e-mail: oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de

web: Otti's homepage
<http://www.bayceer.uni-bayreuth.de/toek1/de/mitarbeiter/mit/mitarbeiter_detail.php?id_obj=106154>

Oliver Otti <oliver.otti@uni-bayreuth.de>
