Where: Colorado State University_Colorado
What:  Genomics of Disease in Wildlife Workshop
When: June 3-11, 2017

Website for more information and application instructions:
www.gdw2017workshop.colostate.edu

Application Deadline: February 1, 2017

Email inquiries: CVMBS_genomics2017@mail.colostate.edu

Overview:

Title: Genomics of Disease in Wildlife: A Workshop

Location: Lory Conference Student Center, Colorado State University,
Fort Collins, CO

Dates: June 3-11, 2017

Website:  www.gdw2017workshop.colostate.edu

Application deadline:  February 1, 2017.

Wildlife biodiversity can be drastically affected by the outbreak
and transmission of disease pathogens in both natural habitats and ex
situ populations. Recent technological advances in genomic sciences
and increasingly affordable Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) assay
costs have coalesced to result in powerful tools to monitor, detect,
and reconstruct the past, present and future role of pathogens within
wildlife biodiversity.  This short course will provide hands-on training
for graduate level and above researchers in wildlife disease related
disciplines seeking to incorporate genomic data into their projects.
The course will be taught by a core group of experts in genome data
analyses with invited faculty comprised of pre-eminent scientists
performing cutting edge of research in host-pathogen genomics in wildlife.

Why is the course needed?

Advances in genomic technology now provide an extraordinary opportunity to
rapidly assess the impact of disease in wildlife biodiversity, management,
and conservation. Wildlife researchers are uniquely positioned to merge
ecological, biological, and evolutionary studies with genomic technologies
to generate unprecedented ‘Big Data’ tools in disease research.
The workshop will provide a venue to accomplish this goal, will provide
networking opportunities for colleagues from intersecting interests,
and will advance genomic tools in wildlife disease investigations.

How will the course address the need?

The course will provide essential training to wildlife biologists,
veterinarians, conservation managers, and related experts to successfully
incorporate NGS data in wildlife research. Attendees will conduct hands-on
analyses of ‘real world’ genomic data of both host and pathogen.
The course will provide: (1) an overview of current bioinformatics
developments and approaches; (2) guidance to implement genomic tools
in study design;  (3) NGS data analysis and interpretation; and, (4)
opportunities for interaction with peers, core faculty, and invited
experts.

Workshop Syllabus

The workshop will cover a typical workflow commonly used in NGS analyses
starting with the initial raw sequence through the final stages of
identifying host:pathogen variants linked with disease. Each of the
eight days of the workshop will cover an essential component of the NGS
workflow in succession.

Morning sessions will be a series of instructional lectures and
demonstrations that will concisely present the purpose, justification and
implementation of the specific workflow unit.  Short and exciting ‘flash
talks’ presented by CSU faculty will present some of their ongoing
investigations using genomic tools in wildlife disease.  The afternoon
sessions will be computer-intensive labs in which attendees will perform
‘hands-on’ analyses with real-world genomic data for each workflow
topic. Evening plenary lectures from invited faculty will conclude each
day’s activities.

Teaching tools will include exercises using ‘real-world’ NGS data
from a range of pathogens and host species.  Participants will learn
the importance of integrating NGS data from both host and pathogen in
order to better understand current epidemics in wildlife.

For the duration of the course, each attendee will be provided with
a MacBook Pro computer and peripheral equipment, and prepared genome
datasets from several host species and associated pathogens.  These
datasets will be organized into various files and formats prior to the
course, demonstrate key concepts, and be the foundation for computer
exercises and teaching tools.

Summary of Workshop Schedule

Day 1: Arrival, Registration and Opening Reception. The workshop begins
in the evening of Sunday June 3, 2017 at the Lory Conference Center. A
welcome session will introduce faculty and an overview of the workshop. An
informal welcome reception follows with faculty, staff and participants.

Day 2:  Optimizing NGS data and study design. Lectures and computer labs
will introduce the different types of NGS data and how to best use these
data in the study of disease in wildlife. Topics will include the latest
advances in NGS technologies, NGS definitions, examples, applications,
and experimental design. Computer lab will introduce host and pathogen
datasets for the workshop, methods in genome mining, and navigating
genome browsers.

Day 3: NGS evaluation, quality and genome assembly. Lectures and computer
labs will address the next phase of NGS workflow including assessment
of sequence data quality, long and short reads, scaffolds, contigs,
genome assembly algorithms, genome mapping to a reference genome and de
novo assembly.

Day 4: Genome alignments and multiple sequence files.  Lectures and
computer labs will outline the critical steps essential to creating
proper alignments of genomes or targeted portions of genomes of host
and pathogen.

Day 5: Phylogenomics. Lectures and computer labs will introduce the
concepts guiding the use of phylogenetic reconstruction of genomes
of both host and pathogen and the utility of these methods in rapid
assessment of critical factors characterizing pathogen outbreaks in the
wild. Topics will include phylogenomic design and sampling strategies,
search algorithms, maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods, and
phylogenetic interpretation.

Day 6: Signatures of selection and adaptation. Lectures and computer
labs will teach methods commonly used in identifying regions of the
genome under neutral, diversifying and purifying selection for both host
and pathogen.

Day 7: Population genomics.  Lectures and computer labs will address
the types of information only possible through application of genomic
tools in the study of population structure and diversity of both host
species and pathogen.

Day 8:  The arms race between host and pathogen.  Using the tools of
the workshop, participants will learn how to evaluate and identify the
genomic underpinnings of host-pathogen interactions.

Day 9: Workshop Evaluations, Concluding Remarks and Departure

Who may apply?

We invite applications from researchers involved in wildlife disease
through four major fields of inquiry: wildlife biology, veterinary
medicine, conservation managers, and genome scientists. Participants will
be comprised of senior level graduate students, post-doctoral fellows,
and faculty from academia as well as managers of wildlife and conservation
programs from government agencies and non-profit organizations.

‘Genomics of Disease in Wildlife’ Sponsors:

Morris Animal Foundation
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute
College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences-Colorado State University
Geneious

"Slattery, Jill Pecon" <SlatteryJP@si.edu>

