Dear all,

The Protistology-UK society will be organising two sessions at the next
Annual Conference 2017 of the Microbiology Society that will take place
in Edinburgh from Monday 3 April to Thursday 6 April 2017: - Annual
Meeting of Protistology-UK society: Intracellular infection and
endosymbiosis within protists Invited speakers include Martin Embley,
John Archibald, Yousef Abu Kwaik, David Bass, Eva Nowack, Jean-Michel
Claverie, Chris Lowe and others. - Aquatic microbiology: New model
organisms and new challenges (sponsored by the Moore Foundation) Invited
speakers include John Dolan, Chris Lane, Thomas Mock, Angela Falciatore,
Virginia Edgcomb, Ross Waller, Susanne Menden-Deuer, Alexandra Z. Worden
and many others.

In addition, there are going to be numerous other sessions that might be
of interest of researchers in the evolutionary field including but not
restricted to:
> Microbial genomics: whole population to single cell
> Evolution and virus populations
> Anaerobes in infection

More information about the meeting and abstract submission:
http://www.microbiologysociety.org/events/annual-conferences/index.cfm/annual-conference-2017

The submission deadline for poster and oral presentations will close at
23:59 (UK time) on Monday 12 December 2016. Abstracts can be submitted
online through the Society's website, where you will find full details
of the conference programme and guidelines for submission. Decisions on
successful abstracts will be made in early 2017.

The 2017 Conference will be the first time that the Society awards
four sets of poster prizes. The first set will be awarded by the
Editors of our journals, the second chosen by members of the Early
Career Microbiologists' Forum, while our Principle Investigators
will select the third. The fourth "People's Choice" award will
be decided upon by delegates at the event.  To support attendance,
the Society offers grants for delegates at different stages of their
careers. For full details, please see our dedicated grants page:
http://www.microbiologysociety.org/grants-prizes/index.cfm

We look forward to receiving your abstracts (only a week to go), and
hope to see you in Edinburgh.

Kind regards,

Anastasios Tsaousis

Dr. Anastasios D. Tsaousis (PhD) 
Lecturer in Molecular Parasitology 
University of Kent, 
School of Biosciences, Room: Ingram 220 
Canterbury, CT2 7NJ, UK 
tel: +44 (0) 1227 827007 

email: tsaousis.anastasios@gmail.com 
          A.Tsaousis@kent.ac.uk 

Webpage: http://www.kent.ac.uk/bio/profiles/staff/tsaousis.html 

Orcid: http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5424-1905

tsaousis.anastasios@gmail.com

