Erasmus Mundus Master Program in Evolutionary Biology (MEME)

MEME is a two-year research oriented master program for talented and
motivated students who are interested in understanding evolution in all its
facets. It intends to provide an optimal preparation for subsequent doctoral
studies and eventually a career in academic research.

The MEME program addresses the driving forces of evolution at all levels of
organismal organization (from cells and individuals to populations and
ecosystems), and allows students to study all kinds of organisms
(microorganisms, plants, animals) in all kinds of habitats (marine as well
as terrestrial) with a diversity of approaches (field, lab, theory). The
focus of the program is not only on how evolution shaped life on our planet
in the past, but also on how understanding the principles underlying
evolution can provide new insights and help to cope with present-day
challenges in a variety of fields, including ecology, epidemiology,
physiology, immunology, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics, economics and the
social sciences.

To offer a program of such broad scope, four European universities
(University of Groningen, Netherlands; University of Montpellier, France;
Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich, Germany; Uppsala University,
Sweden), have joined forces with Harvard University (USA). Together, this
consortium has put together an attractive multidisciplinary program that
meets highest standards. All students have to study at (at least) two
partner universities, and they will receive a double degree from two partner
universities they have attended.

Being financed by the European Community, MEME has to satisfy the high
quality standards imposed the prestigious Erasmus+ Program. A limited number
of full scholarships is available for European and non-European students and
these will be awarded in a selective procedure. Details on the program and
the selection procedure can be found on  
www.evobio.eu.

Starting date: 15 August 2017

Application deadline: 1 February 2017

Please alert your students to this great opportunity!

More information and how to apply - please see  
www.evobio.eu

Questions about the contents of the program:

Franjo Weissing (f.j.weissing@rug.nl)

Questions about the requirements and the application procedure: 

Maartje Giesbers (m.c.w.g.giesbers@rug.nl)

