ESEB Symposium on "Spatial Evolution"

Dear Colleagues,

We would like to invite you to submit an abstract to our symposium
[S25] on 'Spatial Evolution' at the 16th Congress of the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25
August 2017

http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s25-spatial-evolution-although-disp/

http://www.eseb2017.nl/

INVITED SPEAKERS:

Hanna Kokko (University of Zurich)

Stephane Joost (EPFL, Lausanne)

ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE:

The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Submit
abstracts online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:

Although dispersal is one of the four mechanisms of evolutionary
change, the explicit spatial context in which evolution occurs is
frequently ignored. In addition, the dynamics of dispersal are
important as well, as the ability to disperse itself may rapidly evolve
and is subject to eco-evolutionary feedbacks. A particularly potent
tool for elucidating spatial evolution is genomic data, which can be
used to accurately assess (fine-scale) spatial genetic variation.
Together with an improved understanding of spatial evolution, this
helps us better understand applied processes such as biogeography,
climate-change related range shifts, biological invasions and the
spread of disease. Our symposium provides a platform for biologists
studying evolution in a spatial context. We invite contributions from
theory, experiments and comparative work considering all levels of
organization, from individuals to communities, and particularly
encourage studies incorporating multiple approaches. We will showcase
the diversity of approaches (statistical approaches, modelling,
experimental evolution, genetics, spatially informed genomics) as well
as model and non-model organisms used in the study of spatial evolution
(from microbes to vertebrates and digital organisms). This inclusive
approach is a major precondition for promoting interaction and reaching
synthesis in this quickly advancing field and designing future research
avenues.

SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:

Emanuel Fronhofer (Eawag & University of Zurich)

Flora Jay (CNRS, Paris-Sud University)

Benjamin Peter (University of Chicago)

Marjo Saastamoinen (University Helsinki)

Looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!

Dr Marjo Saastamoinen

Academy Research Fellow

Centre of Excellence in Metapopulation Research

Department of Biosciences

PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1)

FI-00014 University of Helsinki

FINLAND

tel. + 358 (0)50 448 4471

http://www.mv.helsinki.fi/home/msaastam/

"Saastamoinen, Marjo A K" <marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki.fi>

