Dear Colleagues, We would like to invite you to symposium [S15]
"Experimental evolution in complex environments" that will take place at
the 16th Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB),
in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017. Organisms live in complex
communities in which they are influenced by the social connections to their
peers, which shape their environment. Hence adaptation to an environment is
highly influenced by the abiotic environment as well as the social
interactions with community members. Experimental evolution provides a
superb approach for studying how social as well as abiotic environmental
interactions affect the adaptation to novel and heterogeneous environments.
In addition, it aids our understanding of the intricate connection between
the abiotic environment, the individual organisms and their communities
that inhabit it. Importantly, the community structure significantly
influences the evolution of social interactions that could resolve in
cooperation, mutualistic division of labor or competition and conflict.
Recent advances in experimental evolution revolutionized our understanding
of the principles underlying population dynamics in heterogeneous
environments. The aim of this symposium is to bring together empirical and
theoretical contributions that aim to understand the impact of the
environment-mediated selective forces driving the evolution of microbes and
other model systems in the laboratory and under natural settings. Invited
speakers: Michael Brockhurst (University of York), Ivana Gudelj (University
of Exeter); Organizers: Akos Kovacs (Technical University of Denmark),
Marjon de Vos (Wageningen University). The deadline for abstract submission
is 10 January 2017. More information can be found at http://bit.ly/2ge3LOo.
We look forward to receiving your intriguing story on this topic and to
welcoming you at the conference and our symposium. Marjon de Vos and Akos
Kovacs

Akos T Kovacs <akos.t.kovacs@gmail.com>

