Dear All,

We would like to invite abstract submissions for our upcoming symposium
on the Genomics of Adaptation that will take place as part of the 16th
Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB). The
conference will take place from August 20th - August 25th, 2017 in
Groningen, the Netherlands.

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Genomics of Adaptation [S16] 
Model organisms for life-history research are mainly studied in the lab
where functional genetics is assessable. In general, however, knowledge
about their eco-evolutionary dynamics, such as biotic interactions,
is rare. By contrast, in organisms for which the ecology and adaptation
strategies in the field are well known, we typically lack the appropriate
genetic tools to investigate functionality. Advances in genomics and
statistics as well as investments in evolutionary model organisms are
now providing access to putatively adaptive genome-wide variation
within species from across the tree of life. In this symposium, we
focus on integrating life-history biology, genetics and evolutionary
ecology in the genomics era. We wish to (1) highlight the role of genetic
architecture of complex traits, such as adaptations to biotic interactions
or life-history traits; (2) contrast this to morphological traits which
are generally thought to have a less complex genetic architecture; and
  (3) discuss the opportunities and drawbacks of specific model systems.

INVITED SPEAKERS:
Josephine Pemberton, University of Cambridge (http://pemberton.bio.ed.ac.uk)
Peter Tiffin, University of Minnesota (http://cbs.umn.edu/tiffin-lab/)

ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
The deadline for abstract submission is January 10, 2017. For
more information and to submit abstracts online, please visit:
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

We look forward to an exciting symposium and seeing you all in Groningen!

Sincerely,
Ben Blackman, UC Berkeley
Maaike de Jong, University of Bristol
Bart Pannebakker, Wageningen University
Noah Whiteman, UC Berkeley
Jelle Zandveld, Wageningen University

Benjamin Blackman
Department of Plant and Microbial Biology
University of California, Berkeley
361 Koshland Hall
Berkeley, CA 94720

Phone: 510.664.7807
E-mail: bkblackman@berkeley.edu
Web: http://nature.berkeley.edu/blackmanlab

"bkblackman@berkeley.edu" <bkblackman@berkeley.edu>

