ESEB Symposium on " Coevolution in antagonistic ecological interactions "

Dear Colleagues,

Please be invited to the ESEB symposium

[S32] Coevolution in antagonistic ecological interactions
at the 16th Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology in
Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017, http://www.eseb2017.nl/.

INVITED SPEAKERS:
Minus van Baalen (=C9cole Normale Sup=E9rieure, Paris)
Candace Low (San Francisco State University)

ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017. Submit abstracts
online at http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Exploitation strategies are at the core of consumer-resource interactions:
herbivores exploit plants, predators exploit prey, and parasites exploit
their hosts. Most theory on the evolution of exploitation strategies has
concentrated on host-parasite interactions, modelling for example the
virulence-transmission trade-off or within-host competition between strains
with different exploitation strategies. However, this theory has rarely
been applied to other antagonistic interactions, such as plant-herbivore or
predator-prey interactions.

Recently, empirical work has made important progress in identifying
exploitation strategies outside host-parasite systems. Herbivores, for
example, not only express resistance to plant defence, but have now been
shown to exploit their host through suppression of defence in many systems.
Within a community context, these exploitation strategies have profoundly
different consequences: resistance affects competition with other
herbivores and apparent competition through natural enemies, but
suppression and induction of plant defences directly affect food quality
for others, such as kin, competitors and even natural enemies. Given that
suppression of plant defences also benefits other community members, how
could this exploitation strategy evolve?
This symposium aims to bring together empiricists and theoreticians working
on antagonistic coevolution in parasite-host, predator-prey and
plant-herbivore systems, addressing the evolution of exploitation
strategies in antagonistic ecological interactions.

SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Bram Knegt (University of Amsterdam)
Felipe Lemos (University of Amsterdam, Federal University of Vi=E7osa)

Looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!

Bram and Felipe

bramknegt@gmail.com

