Dear evolDir community,

we would like to remind you that the deadline for abstract submission for
the upcoming conference of the "European Society for Evolutionary Biology"
(ESEB 2017) to be held in Groningen (Netherlands) from 20 to 25 August
2017 (for more details see http://www.eseb2017.nl/) is approaching soon
(*January 10th 2017*).

In this context, we would like to invite you all
to submit an abstract to our symposium on "Fitness
landscapes, big data and the predictability of evolution"
(http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s14-fitness-landscapes-big-data-an/).
Abstracts can be submitted here:
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

[S14] Fitness landscapes, big data and the predictability of evolution

Evolutionary biology has become increasingly powerful in inferring past
evolutionary processes from patterns in present-day genomes. However,
forecasting evolution's future routes remains an exciting intellectual
challenge with substantial implications for global health and species
conservation. The concept of the fitness landscape has been central
to recent studies of the predictability of evolution, and has inspired
evolutionary biologists and mathematicians alike. Combining microbial
experimental evolution with next-generation sequencing, efforts have
now been made to rigorously test for the repeatability and dynamics
of evolution. At the same time, theoretical studies try to provide
the necessary navigational tools for exploring the terra incognita
of molecular evolutionary biology. This symposium aims to identify
the key issues and challenges -- both methodological and theoretical
- to advance our understanding of the predictability of evolution,
particularly in the light of "big data". We anticipate that insights
from our symposium will stimulate and direct future studies of the
predictability of evolution. With next-generation sequencing on board,
fitness landscapes are heading for new shores: It's now time to check
whether "there be dragons"!

Organizers: Santiago Elena, Inês Fragata, Sebastian Matuszewski, Arjan
de Visser

Invited speakers: Michael Lässig, Lilia Perfeito

Please feel free to contact sebastian.matuszewski[at]epfl.ch if you have
any questions.

Looking forward to seeing you all in Groningen,
Sebastian Matuszewski

"sebastian.matuszewski@epfl.ch" <sebastian.matuszewski@epfl.ch>

