Dear all,

We are excited to invite you to submit your abstract and attend the
symposium:

"Phylogenetics in the Genomic Era" 

to be held at the European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting in
Groningen, The Netherlands (20-25th August 2017).

http://www.eseb2017.nl/
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s30-phylogenetics-in-the-genomic-er/

INVITED SPEAKERS:
Scott Edwards (Harvard University, USA)
Ziheng Yang (University College London, UK)

ABSTRACT:
Accurate inference of species relationships is crucial to address
fundamental questions in evolutionary biology. Empiricists have greatly
benefitted from the continual ease of generating sequence data for
phylogenetic inference and can now employ genome-scale datasets to infer
the evolutionary history of clades across the tree of life. However,
the availability of large phylogenomic datasets are not a panacea
for all phylogenetic issues and these large datasets often present
new challenges. In particular, individual genetic markers can have
discordant phylogenetic histories due to processes such as incomplete
lineage sorting, introgression and selection, potentially clouding
the inference of organismal relationships. Most contemporary species
tree estimation methods aim to model observed incongruence using the
multi-species coalescent but these approaches often assume incomplete
lineage sorting as the single source of discord and are computationally
exhaustive or rely on the precision of individual gene trees. The
development of novel approaches to account for sources of phylogenetic
incongruence therefore remains a thriving area of research. Given the
vigorous state of the field, it is thus timely to discuss recent advances
and remaining challenges of species tree estimation in a symposium where
we invite both theoreticians and empiricists.

ORGANIZERS: Mozes Blom (Swedish Museum of Natural History, Sweden)
Matthew Fujita (University of Texas at Arlington, USA)

ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
The deadline for abstract submission is the 10th of January 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-/

Please contact Mozes Blom (mozes.blom@gmail.com) if you have any
questions!

Best,

Matt and Mozes

mozes.blom@gmail.com

