Dear Colleagues:

We are pleased to invite you to submit abstracts and attend the ESEB
symposium

"Evolutionary implications of transposable elements, epigenetics,
and non-genetic inheritance" [S20]

that will take place at the 16th Congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology in Groningen, The Netherlands, 20-25th of August
2017.

 
INVITED SPEAKERS:
Prof. Brandon Gaut (University of California, USA)
Prof. Tobias Uller (Lund University, Sweden)

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
It is now well known that rapid evolution and adaptation to new
environments is not solely driven by variation at chromosomal
gene loci, but that it is also influenced by various cytonuclear
factors and by non-genetic inheritance. Epigenetic modifications and
cytoplasmic elements can directly affect morphological, physiological
and behavioural phenotypic variation across generations. Also,
transposable elements that are ubiquitous sequences in virtually
all genomes may have a strong impact on host gene regulation, which
could be mediated by epigenetic modifications. The interaction between
transposable elements, epigenetics and the environment may considerably
increase the degree of phenotypic variation in natural populations,
thus allowing for rapid local adaptation. Yet, the mechanisms
underlying non-genetic inheritance and the effects of epigenetic
modifications by transposable elements remain unclear. This symposium
will bring together theoreticians and empiricists who are interested
in the interplay of environmental factors, transposable elements,
cytoplasmic components and transgenerational epigenetic changes. The
aim is to better understand the nature of transposable elements and
non-genetic inheritance and their impact on evolutionary dynamics.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s20-evolutionary-implications-of-tra/

SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Josefa Gonzalez (Institute of Evolutionary Biology, CSIC-UPF, Spain)
Willian Silva (Uppsala University, Sweden)
Foteini Spagopoulou (Uppsala University, Sweden)
Cristina Vieira (University of Lyon, France)

We would like to invite abstract submissions of oral and/or poster
presentations on both empirical and theoretical work focused on the
interplay between environmental factors and transposable elements or
heritable non-genetic components.

 
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE:
The deadline for abstract submission is the 10th of January 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-/

We are looking forward to receiving your submissions and to seeing you
in Groningen!

Foteini, Willian, Cristina and Josefa

 

Foteini Spagopoulou
PhD student at Maklakov Lab
Animal Ecology
Department of Ecology and Evolution
Evolutionary Biology Centre
Uppsala University
Norbyvagen 18D
SE-752 36 Uppsala
Sweden

E-mail: Foteini.Spagopoulou@ebc.uu.se
Office: +46 18-471 2930

 

Foteini Spagopoulou <foteini.spagopoulou@ebc.uu.se>

