ESEB SYMPOSIUM ON THE MUTUALIST-PARASITE CONTINUUM

Dear colleagues:

We would like to invite you to contribute to and/or attend the ESEB symposium

 " Evolution across the mutualist-parasite continuum " [S31]

 which will take place at the 16th Congress of the European Society
 for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in Groningen, The Netherlands, 20-25
 August 2017.

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:

Symbioses, and other close-knit species relationships, are ubiquitous
and important across all ecosystems. Such species interactions vary
widely, from costly relationships which drive rapid antagonistic
coevolution, to beneficial relationships which facilitate functional
diversification. Rather than two extremes however, these interactions
should be viewed as a continuum between mutualism and parasitism. This
conceptual framework unites researchers studying host-parasite and
host-mutualist interactions and explores the potential for transitions
along the continuum. Our topic is timely and relevant to the ESEB
community. It has broad evolutionary relevance for which many new
insights have been generated in the last few years. This symposium
will bring together researchers studying the evolution of parasitism
and mutualism to: 1) highlight the role of these species interactions
in shaping an organism's evolutionary biology; 2) emphasize the
importance of linking phenotypic and state-of-the-art genomics analysis
in revealing these effects; 3) bring together experimental evolution and
field-based approaches in studying evolution across the continuum and 4)
assess the role of ecology in shaping the evolutionary stability of these
systems. Many important concepts in evolutionary biology will be covered,
from coevolution, genetic diversity, virulence, and sex, to ecological
networks. Our invited speakers are at the forefront of research on both
sides of the continuum and use natural systems while combining genomics
and experimental evolution approaches.

http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s31-evolution-across-the-mutualist-/

INVITED SPEAKERS:

Hinrich Schulenberg (CAU Kiel, D)

2nd speaker TBA

ORGANIZERS:

Ana Duarte (University of Exeter, UK)

Francisco Encinas-Viso (CSIRO, AU)

Ellie Harrison (University of York, UK)

Aniek Ivens (The Rockefeller University, USA / Vrije Universiteit
Amsterdam, NL)

Kayla King (University of Oxford, UK)

We invite submissions for oral and/or poster contributions; we are
interested in both empirical and theoretical work covering the ecology
and evolution of species interactions along the parasitism-mutualism
continuum.

The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.

http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

We are very much looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!

Ana, Fran, Ellie, Kayla and Aniek

Aniek Ivens, PhD
Laboratory of Social Evolution and Behavior
The Rockefeller University
New York, NY 
(t) +1-212-327-7852
(e) aivens@rockefeller.edu
(w) www.aniek.nyc

Aniek Ivens <aivens@mail.rockefeller.edu>

