Dear All,

Abstract submission is open for our symposium:
"[S22] Coevolution of hosts and their microbiome"
planned for the *European Society for Evolutionary
Biology meeting in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25th August 2017.*

Deadline for abstract submission : 10th January 2017.

http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-/

Abstract:

The evolution of life-history traits in plants and animals has taken place
in the midst of complex microbial communities. Biology is undergoing a
fundamental reshaping where the phenotypic expression of individuals needs
to be considered as the combined expression of the host and its associated
microbial genomes, defined as the "holobiont" (i.e. the host and
its microbiota). These concepts have wide ranging implications and have
led to the realization that multicellular organisms coevolve with their
microbial symbionts. Although host-microbe interactions can be understood
by ecological processes, much less is known about the significance of
evolutionary and eco-evolutionary processes. Given its complex structure,
understanding the specific roles, adaptability, and functions provided
by the microbiome is a new scientific frontier. Recent developments in
molecular and statistical techniques have given holobiont studies new
impetus by allowing researchers to address novel questions. We aim to
discuss theoretical concepts and empirical evidences on the role of the
microbiota in holobiont evolution. Specifically: 1) How do microbiota
shape the holobiont phenotypic traits and their plasticity? 2) Do we
have evidence for coevolutionary processes shaping the evolution of
holobionts? 3) How can selection shape the evolution of the collective
genomes of a holobiont (the "hologenome")?

Invited speakers: Seth Bordenstein, Nancy Moran, Philippe Vandenkoornhuys

Organizers: 

Antton Alberdi, University of Copenhagen

Philipp Heeb, University of Toulouse-CNRS

Alexandre Jousset, Utrecht University

Morten Limborg University of Copenhagen

Irene B. Tieleman University of Groningen

Friman Ville, University of York

Zhong Wei, Nanjing Agricultural University

Philipp Heeb <philipp.heeb@univ-tlse3.fr>

