ESEB Symposium on
"EVOLUTIONARY SIGNIFICANCE OF BIOLOGICAL CLOCKS"

Dear Colleagues,

we would like to invite you to attend or contribute to the ESEB
symposium

[S6] Evolutionary significance of biological clocks
at the 16th Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB), in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017.

INVITED SPEAKERS:
Steven Reppert ( University of Massachusetts)
Takashi Yoshimura ( Nagoya University)

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Biological clocks are found in almost all organisms and have evolved
independently many times, suggesting they must convey considerable
adaptive value. The adaptive value may lie in (1) optimizing energy
expenditure in a world full of regular environmental changes, such as
seasons, night and day and tides, (2) synchronizing reproduction within
populations or with suitable environmental conditions or (3) escaping
predation. In surprisingly few cases the adaptive value of biological
clocks has been demonstrated experimentally. However, there are a
number of examples where local adaptation of biological clocks to
environmental clines (e.g. latitudinal temperature clines) gives
indirect evidence for the adaptive value of biological clocks. These
cases often also allow to study the evolutionary forces shaping
biological clocks and their target clock molecules. Our symposium will
be open to all evolutionary aspects of biological timekeeping - from
seasonal over diel to tidal and lunar rhythms. We would like to
showcase demonstrations of adaptive values of biological clocks, but
also offer a platform for all other topics at the intersection of
evolution and biological timekeeping. We aim to initiate discussion
among evolutionary biologists and chronobiologists, in order increase
mutual understanding and to foster the thinking about biological clocks
in evolutionary terms.

Organizers:
Roelof Hut (University of Groningen)
Tobias Kaiser (MPI Evolutionary Biology, Plon)

The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.

Abstracts can be submitted online here:
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

Looking forward to seeing you in Groningen!
Roelof and Tobias

Dr. Tobias Kaiser

Max Planck Research Group "Biological Clocks"
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology
August-Thienemann-Str. 2 | 24306 Plon | Germany
Phone +49-4522-763-224
Homepage

Tobias Kaiser <kaiser@evolbio.mpg.de>

