Dear Colleagues,

We extend an invitation to our upcoming ESEB 2017 [S23] symposium
entitled Rapid Evolution Revisited.

The symposium will take place at the 16th Congress of the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB), in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25 August 2017.

The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.

SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Times are changing, and our studies in evolutionary biology must change
along with it. Many studies now demonstrate that natural populations
can evolve at ecological timescales (i.e. across a few generations),
which is particularly evident in adaptation to environmental change. At
the same time, some of the best model systems to study evolution
in action have demonstrated that predicting the magnitude and direction
of evolution from estimates of selection is less than straightforward.
The increased availability of genomic and long-term data in non-model
organisms, and novel advances in statistical and technological methods,
can provide new solutions to this puzzle. These advances acknowledge
that our ability to predict evolution in natural populations can be
improved by considering determinants of the whole phenotype (from
genetic and plastic to transgenerational and epigenetic effects), and
also eco-evolutionary feedback processes. Yet in many systems these
novel frameworks and tools remain under-used. The goal of this
symposium is to synthesize these into a more integrative framework for
the study of evolution in nature; a timely topic given the pressing
challenge of predicting responses to global environmental change.
.

Organizers:
Organizers: Swanne Gordon (University of Jyvaskyla), Andres
Lopez-Sepulcre (CNRS-Universite Pierre et Marie Curie), and
Katja Rasanen (Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and
Technology)

The deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.

Abstracts can be submitted online here:
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

Please join us,
Swanne, Andres and Katja

Andrés López-Sepulcre <lopezsepulcre@gmail.com>

