Abstract submission is open for our symposium: '[S19] Evolution of gene
expression regulation' planned for the *European Society for Evolutionary
Biology meeting in Groningen, Netherlands, 20-25th August, 2017. *

http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/abstract-guidelines-/

More than four decades have passed since it was first suggested that gene
expression regulation variation could play a significant role in the
phenotypic divergence between chimpanzees and humans. Ever since, there has
been an impressive and fruitful effort to characterize the molecular basis
of regulatory variation within and between species. However, until
recently, 'regulatory variation' has been used synonymously with
'differences in mRNA levels'. In recent years, though, new high-throughput
sequencing technologies have offered us a window into fundamental questions
about the evolution of post-transcriptional dynamics. With the introduction
of methods such as ribosome profiling (RiboSeq) and mass spectroscopy
(mass-spec), we can now measure post-transcriptional regulation in a
variety of different conditions. These technologies are now being used to
study questions from how regulatory variation evolves within and between
species. Moreover, there exist exciting avenues in applying these methods
to microbial evolution experiments to study how gene expression regulation
evolves during adaptation. Other examples include new methods and insights
into the evolutionary role of non-coding RNAs, which have been uncovered as
key regulators of gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, or the
evolution of protein post-translational modifications that can influence
their function, activity or stability. Together, these studies have given
us unprecedented insight into the evolution of transcriptional and
post-transcriptional regulation. This symposium will bring together
researchers that develop and employ high-throughput, quantitative
techniques to measure gene expression regulation with the goal of
understanding the molecular landscape of complex phenotypes.

Organizers: Oana Carja, Joshua Plotkin, Premal Shah

Inivited speakers: Leonid Kruglyak, Judit Villen

Please contact Oana Carja (ocarja@sas.upenn.edu) with further questions.

oana.carja@gmail.com

