Dear colleagues,

We would like to invite contributions to our symposium at ESEB 2017:
"Fitness and evolution in a social environment: from theory to reality"

at the 16th Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology to 
be held in Groningen, The Netherlands 20-25 August 2017.

http://www.eseb2017.nl/
http://www.eseb2017.nl/sub/s9-fitness-and-evolution-in-a-socia/

Symposium Summary

Summary: An individual's fitness will be shaped by multiple aspects of 
social interactions, including effects of competitive interactions, 
parental care and parent-offspring conflict, cooperative breeding and 
inbreeding. Because variation in fitness is the raw ingredient that 
drives natural selection and consequent evolution, how best to measure 
it in social environments poses a critical challenge for evolutionary 
biology. This challenge has been approached differently by different 
fields. Social evolution theory has well-developed models of inclusive 
fitness, but these often assume simplified genetic underpinnings. Recent 
advances in quantitative genetics have explored indirect genetic effects 
of con-specifics on phenotypic diversity, but the implications of 
variation in inclusive fitness for evolutionary dynamics are unclear. 
Analyses of life-history trait variation reveal different selection 
pressures if fitness is assessed by contributions across multiple 
generations, again with complex implications. Wish this symposium we 
hope to encourage integrated conceptual and empirical means of 
estimating fitness that bring together currently disparate subfields.

The symposium will showcase recent advances in understanding variation 
in fitness, and resulting evolution, in social environments. 
Specifically we aim to: (1) stimulate discussion and communication 
between theoreticians and empiricists working on a diversity of systems; 
(2) evaluate alternative methods for measuring fitness; and (3) 
illustrate the causes and consequences of variation in fitness in social 
environments for evolutionary dynamics.

Invited Speakers:
Piter Bijma, (Wageningen University)
Florence Debarre (Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Biology, Paris)

Organizers
Loeske Kruuk (Australian National University)
Jane Reid (University of Aberdeen)

We invite submissions for both oral presentations and posters. The 
deadline for abstract submission is 10 January 2017.
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

We hope to see you there!

Professor Loeske Kruuk
Division of Evolution and Ecology
Research School of Biology
The Australian National University
ACT 2601, Australia
Phone: +61 2 6125 6931
Loeske.Kruuk@anu.edu.au
www.biology.anu.edu.au/Loeske_Kruuk

loeske.kruuk@anu.edu.au

