Dear Colleagues,

We are excited to invite you to submit abstracts and attend our upcoming 
symposium on

"Eco-evolutionary dynamics"

which will be part of the 2017 Congress of the European Society for 
Evolutionary Biology (ESEB). The conference will be taking place from 
August 20th - August 25th, 2017 in Groningen, the Netherlands. 
http://www.eseb2017.nl/home/

We are looking forward to many exciting contributions and to a 
stimulating discussion with you!

The deadline for ABSTRACT SUBMISSION is January 10, 2017.

To submit abstracts online, please go to: 
http://www.eseb2017.nl/call-for-abstracts/

Invited speakers:

Jonathan Pruitt (UC Santa Barbara)

Jen Schweitzer (University of Tennessee)

Isabel Smallegange (University of Amsterdam)

Andrew Hendry (McGill University)

Symposium description

[S24] Eco-evolutionary dynamics

In recent years, the scientific community has embraced the fact that 
evolutionary change can occur at ecological time scales and thereby 
interact with ongoing ecological dynamics. While theoreticians are 
exploring new ways to simultaneously account for ecological and 
evolutionary dynamics (e.g. demographic models, fast-slow dynamics), 
empiricists are investigating the drivers of eco-evolutionary feedbacks 
(e.g. environmental variation, evolutionary history, phenotypic 
plasticity, and community structure). To advance this "newest 
synthesis", we bring together theoreticians and empiricists focusing on 
the eco-evolutionary dynamics of biological interactions across three 
levels of biological organization: 1) interactions among coexisting 
individuals with alternative life-history strategies, including 
personalities and tactics; 2) interspecific interactions, including 
host-parasite, prey-predator and symbiotic interactions; and 3) 
interactions between phenotypic variation and community or ecosystem 
characteristics. We invite contributions on eco-(co)evolutionary 
dynamics providing mechanistic, empirical and theoretical insights into 
eco-evolutionary feedback loops. In this way, the symposium will aim to 
advance conceptual understanding of eco-evolutionary dynamics in 
coevolution, speciation and life-history evolution. In addition to the 
invited speakers (Jen Schweitzer and Jonathan Pruitt), we have also 
invited Isabel Smallegange and Andrew Hendry to contribute to the symposium.

We hope to see you in Groningen next summer!

Best wishes from the organizers,

Franziska Brunner, University of Liverpool

Jacques Deere, University of Amsterdam

Martijn Egas, University of Amsterdam

Christophe Eizaguirre, Queen Mary University of London

Joost Raeymaekers, Centre for Biodiversity Dynamics, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology

If you have any further questions, please don't hesitate to contact

Martijn Egas (egas@uva.nl) or Franziska Brunner 
(franziska.brunner@liverpool.ac.uk)

-- 

Dr Franziska Brunner
PDRA

Insitute of Integrative Biology
University of Liverpool
Biosciences Building, Crown Street
L69 7ZB Liverpool

Franziska.Brunner@liverpool.ac.uk
https://fsbrunner.wordpress.com

Franziska Brunner <Franziska.Brunner@liverpool.ac.uk>

