This is a reminder for our workshop on zoonotic diseases, host-parasite 
coevolution and ancient DNA (aDNA). *Deadline is Dec 21 !!*

The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology and the Robert Koch 
Institute are organizing the workshop

                    *One Past Health*

- Understanding past zoonotic events to predict future ones -

from February 15th to 17th, 2017, at the Max Planck Institute for 
Evolutionary Biology in Ploen/Germany.

http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/OnePastHealth

This workshop aims to foster the interdisciplinary dialog between 
medical, veterinary and biological sciences, bringing together empirical 
and theoretical researchers interested in disease ecology, epidemiology, 
host-pathogen coevolution, paleogenomics, and more. The resulting 
interactions will promote interdisciplinary scientific progress and may 
ultimately help uncovering ways to prevent future zoonotic events.

_Synopsis:_
Many infectious diseases that are of high public health relevance today 
find their roots in past zoonotic events, e.g. the HIV-1 pandemics. 
Similarly, for these infectious diseases involving recurrent 
transmission from zoonotic reservoirs, most transmission events lie in 
the past, e.g. the historical pandemics of Yersinia pestis. These past 
events are an immense, precious and underexplored record of the 
processes leading to zoonotic emergence.

We have some tools to indirectly frame the context of zoonotic events. 
Historical outbreak records are such a tool but unfortunately often 
reveal a very unclear source of information. Over the last 2 decades, we 
took advantage of major advances in molecular biology, statistics and 
computational sciences to leverage the power of a natural record of the 
evolutionary history: the genetic diversity of present-day pathogens. 
This information was used to determine the origin in time and space as 
well as the later spread of Ebola viruses or HIV-1.
But what if we could travel back in time and observe what really 
happened? We could then directly test the hypotheses we derive from 
present-day genetic diversity and catch evolution red-handed at crucial 
steps of the emergence process. Ancient DNA (aDNA) approaches are now 
ripe to simultaneously investigate the evolution of many pathogens 
(including zoonotic ones) and the evolution of the immune system of 
their hosts. This maturity nicely coincides with the development of 
modeling frameworks that allow us to make the most of heterochronous 
data and to describe individual pathogen trajectories in the context of 
the microbial communities they belong to.

_Confirmed keynote speakers are:_

Charlie Nunn, Duke University, USA
Christian Drosten, Uni Bonn, Germany
Frank Kirchhoff, Uni Ulm, Germany
Simone Sommer, Uni Ulm, Germany
Philippe Lemey, KU Leuven, Belgium
Johannes Krause, MPI-SHH, Germany

_Registration:_
There will be some slots for contributed talks as well as a poster 
session. Registration is on a first-come-first-serve basis. Deadline for 
registration is December 21st 2016. Please see the registration page on 
the workshop website for more details:

http://web.evolbio.mpg.de/OnePastHealth

_Organizers:_
Sebastien Calvignac, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin
Tobias Lenz, MPI for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen

Dr. Tobias Lenz, Group Leader
Emmy Noether Group for Evolutionary Immunogenomics
Department of Evolutionary Ecology
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology
August-Thienemann-Str. 2
24306 Ploen, Germany
Tel: +49 4522 763-228
Fax: +49 4522 763-310
Email: lenz@evolbio.mpg.de

http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/EvolutionaryImmunogenomics

"lenz@evolbio.mpg.de" <lenz@evolbio.mpg.de>

