CALL FOR NOMINATIONS

13th ANNUAL EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM

Ecology and evolutionary biology of phenotypic plasticity

The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of
Michigan invites nominations of outstanding scientists early in their
careers to participate in an exciting international symposium about the
ecology and evolutionary biology of phenotypic plasticity. The symposium
events will take place from 10-12th of March 2017, in Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Eight early career scientists, alongside a keynote speaker, will be
selected to present their work and to participate in panel discussions.
We welcome nominations of early career scientists who are studying
topics in ecology and evolution related to phenotypic plasticity.
This symposium will highlight the work of up-and-coming scientists whose
research foci span a breadth of subfields and levels of organization.
We champion diversity and encourage the nomination of members of groups
underrepresented in science.

Early career scientists are considered senior graduate students (who
stand to receive their Ph.D. within one year), postdoctoral researchers,
and first- or second-year faculty. A colleague or advisor must provide
the nomination.

The nomination consists of a brief letter of recommendation addressing
the nominee's scientific promise and ability to give a compelling
talk, the nominee's curriculum vitae, and a brief abstract of
the proposed presentation (< 200 words, written by the nominee).
Nominations may be sent electronically (in one file, please) to
eeb-ecss-nomination@umich.edu using the nominee's name as the subject
line (last name first). Information about Early Career Scientist Symposia
held in past years can be found at http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/ecss/.

Review of nominations will begin on December 31, 2016.

Selected participants will be contacted in mid January and will have
all expenses covered

(registration, travel and accommodation). An official announcement of
the slate of speakers will be issued soon thereafter.

For more information, contact Carol Solomon at carollyn@umich.edu.

The 2017 Early Career Scientists Symposium scientific committee
includes:

Wei-Chin Ho

Andrea Hodgins Davis (chair)

Jill Myers

Annette Ostling

Mary Rogalski

Sonal Singhal

Carol Solomon

Andrea Hodgins-Davis
Wittkopp Lab Postdoc
Department of EEB
University of Michigan

Andrea Hodgins-Davis <andreahd@umich.edu>

