Dear all

Registration has opened for the 40th New Phytologist symposium on the
topic "Plant epigenetics: from mechanisms to ecological relevance" to be
held in Vienna, Austria, 12-15 Sept 2017.

Plant epigenetics has recently become a compelling research field. For
an efficient integration of epigenetics in ecological and biodiversity
research, an interdisciplinary and continuous flux of information is
necessary, together with close cooperation between related disciplines.
To this end, this symposium focuses on interdisciplinary discussion and
aims to foster cooperation among research groups.

The symposium format will include six non-concurrent sessions on the
following topics:
Session 1: Population epigenomics in natural systems
Session 2: Epigenetic regulation of plant phenotypes
Session 3: Transgenerational inheritance of epigenetic patterns
Session 4: Epigenetic regulation as a response to changes in environmental
           conditions
Session 5: Epigenetic regulation of biotic interactions
Session 6: Bioinformatic analysis for plant epigenetics

Twenty-five leading scientists are invited to speak at the symposium. We
hope that this will stimulate focused discussion and the exchange of ideas
at what will be a relatively small (around 120 delegates) and informal
meeting. There will be also several selected talks and poster sessions. As
the symposium benefits from generous support from New Phytologist and
the symposium venue is provided by the University of Vienna, registration
rates are low (120 for students and 240 for regular registration)
and include lunches, coffee breaks, evening receptions, conference dinner,
a tour of the Botanical Garden and a nostalgic tram tour through Vienna.

Places are limited, so please register early to avoid
disappointment. The registration will close as soon as the maximum
number of participants is reached. Abstract submission will remain
open to 13 July 2017. For full details and to register, please visit
https://www.newphytologist.org/symposia/40

Dr Ovidiu Paun
Department for Botany and Biodiversity Research
University of Vienna
http://plantgenomics.univie.ac.at

ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at

