STATISTICS FOR BIOLOGISTS USING R.

https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses/course13/

Dates: 18 - 23 September 2017

Instructor: Dr. Ken Aho (Idaho State University)
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t4/

Course overview This course will demonstrate the extensive capabilities
of the R environment, and seek to develop/broaden the competency of
participants in the use of R statistical applications. The course
will have two components presented in morning and afternoon sessions
over five days. Component one (Monday Sept. 18, Tuesday Sept. 19) will
emphasize R programming characteristics including data management, use of
existing package functions, graphics, customized function writing, calling
routines from compiled languages, and documentation. The second component
(Wednesday Sept. 20 - Friday Sept. 22) will address implementation of
statistical analyses with R, particularly linear models. I will make
frequent use of my library asbio (Applied Statistics and Statistical
Pedagogy for Biologists), and present the materials using biological
examples whenever possible.

Intended audience This course is aimed at scientists, particularly
biologists. While no previous experience with R is required, participants
should have at least a basic familiarity with statistical terms and
concepts.

Curriculum

Monday 18th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 1 - R basics In this session we will briefly consider the
history of R, including trends in usage and package development, the
relationship of R to other languages and platforms, and the reliability of
R base and user-contributed packages. We will then learn and conduct basic
command line operations, including defining R programming options, saving
work, mathematical functions, simple descriptive statistics functions,
utilization of expressions and assignments, R-objects and classes,
auxiliary R-packages, accessing and exploring internal R datasets,
and getting help.

Session 2 - R graphics In this session we consider the properties,
capabilities, and extensions of R graphics. Session topics will include
discussion of the R graphical devices, learning how to alter parameters to
make simple plots and multilayer complex plots (e.g., those containing
multiple distinct graphs, multiple y and x-axes, unusual fonts, 3d
graphics, etc.), lattice graphics, graphical packages (particularly
ggplot) and the creation of publication-ready high resolution figures.

-----

Tuesday 19th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 3 - Handling data in R The session will address handling
data in R. Topics will include properties of R data structures (i.e.,
vectors, matrices, dataframes, and arrays), command line data entry,
importing/exporting delimited spreadsheets and other data, subsetting
and querying data, testing and coercing objects, pattern matching,
and functions for matrix/dataframe/array management and manipulation.

Session 4 - Writing functions The session will consider user-defined
functions using several extended examples. Topics will include looping,
graphical animation, the utilization and development of GUIs, and calling
routines from compiled languages.

-----

Wednesday 20th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 5 - Documentation of work in R and basic applications in
statistics

This session will conclude topics in function writing by considering
approaches for documenting workflow and function characteristics in
R. The session will then turn to the topic of statistical analysis
in earnest. Topics will include probability density functions,
point estimation (including least squares, maximum likelihood and
MOM approaches), and intervallic estimators, including conventional
confidence intervals on a priori sampling distribution assumptions,
along with bootstrapping approaches and Bayesian credible intervals.

Session 6 - General linear models I We will begin this session by
considering simple methods for making inferences concerning the difference
in measures of population location parameters, e.g., t-tests and their
non-parametric analogues. We will then introduce general linear models
with simple and multiple regression. Emphasis will be given to model
selection approaches.

-----

Thursday 21st - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 7 - General linear models II

This session will continue exploration of general linear models by
considering ANOVA approaches including one way ANOVAs with fixed and
random effects, two way designs including factorial designs and blocked
designs as fixed and mixed effect models. We will also consider methods
for simultaneous inference for factor level comparisons.

Session 8 - Generalized linear models, locally fitted models, and
associated topics

This session will briefly consider R applications for specialized response
variables and locally fitted models. Topics will include logistic
and Poisson generalized linear models (GLMs) and definitions of model
efficacy in these contexts. Also explored will be locally fitted models,
including splines, and their use in generalized additive models (GAMs).

-----

Friday 22nd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 9 - Multivariate approaches

This session will briefly consider R applications for the analysis of
multivariate data. Topics will include resemblance indices, multivariate
hypothesis testing with MANOVA, and permutational MANOVA, ordination,
and cluster analysis.

Session 10 - Unfinished materials, student data

This session will be devoted to completing unfinished topics and the
analysis of student data using methods discussed during the course.

-----

APPLICATION DEADLINE is August 18th 2017.

For more info, please visit our website:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course13/

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

