Dear all,

We are pleased to announce that the 2nd edition of
Eukaryotic Metabarcoding Workshop will take place from
February 26th to March 2nd, 2018 in Berlin (Germany):
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course4/

Instructors

Dr Owen S. Wangensteen (University of Salford, UK)/ MSc Vasco Elbrecht
(University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany)

Overview:

Metabarcoding techniques are a set of novel genetic tools for
qualitatively and quantitatively assessing biodiversity of natural
communities. Their potential applications include (but are not limited
to) accurate water quality, soil diversity assessment, trophic analyses
of digestive contents, diagnosis of health status of fisheries, early
detection of non-indigenous species, studies of global ecological
patterns and biomonitoring of anthropogenic impacts. This workshop gives
an overview of metabarcoding procedures with an emphasis on practical
problem-solving and hands-on work using analysis pipelines on real
datasets. After completing the workshop, students should be in a position
to (1) understand the potential and capabilities of metabarcoding, (2)
run complete analyses of metabarcoding pipelines and obtain diversity
inventories and ecologically interpretable data from raw next-generation
sequence data and (3) design their own metabarcoding projects, including
bioinformatic data analysis and planning of laboratory work. All course
materials (including copies of presentations, practical exercises,
data files, and example scripts prepared by the instructing team) will
be provided electronically to participants.

Intended audience:

This workshop is mainly aimed at researchers and technical workers with a
background in ecology, biodiversity or community biology who want to use
molecular tools for biodiversity research and at researchers in other
areas of bioinformatics who want to learn ecological applications for
biodiversity-assessment. In general, it is suitable for every researcher
who wants to join the growing community of metabarcoders worldwide. This
workshop will review mostly techniques and software useful for eukaryotic
metabarcoding. Other workshops focused on procedures currently used in
microbial metabarcoding will be available from Physalia-courses.

Teaching format:

The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see the detailed
curriculum below). Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture
followed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks at the
organizer’s discretion.

Assumed background:

No programming or scripting experience is necessary, but some previous
expertise using the Linux console and/or R will be most welcome. All
examples will be run either in Linux or Mac environments, with some
ssh connections to remote servers. For Windows users, a virtual box
running Linux under Windows and/or the installation of an ssh client
(e.g. PuTTY) will be needed. For MacOSX systems, installation of some
additional Python packages might be needed for running the OBITools
software suite. The syllabus has been planned for people which have some
previous experience running simple commands from a terminal in Linux
or Mac and using the R environment (preferently RStudio) for performing
basic plots and statistical procedures. You will need to have a laptop
with Python 2.7 installed for running OBITools, but no experience with
Python is necessary. If in doubt, take a look at the detailed session
content below or send an email to us.

Course programme:

Monday 26th – Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 1. Introduction to metabarcoding procedures. The metabarcoding
pipeline.

In this session students will be introduced to the key concepts of
metabarcoding and the different next-generation sequencing platforms
currently available for implementing this technology. Some examples of
results that can be obtained from metabarcoding projects are explained. We
will outline the different steps of a typical metabarcoding pipeline
and introduce some key concepts. We will also explain the format of the
course. In this session, we will check that the computing infrastructure
for the rest of the course is in place and all the needed software
is installed. Core concepts introduced: high-throughput sequencing,
multiplexing, NGS library, metabarcoding pipeline, metabarcoding marker,
clustering algorithms, molecular operational taxonomic unit (MOTU),
taxonomic assignment.

Session 2. Molecular laboratory protocols. DNA extraction. Metabarcoding
markers. Primer design. PCR and library preparation. Good laboratory
practice.

In this session we will learn the basics about molecular laboratory
procedures needed for metabarcoding. While there will be no hands-on
laboratory practices, guidelines and best practices for all key laboratory
steps will be discussed. We will explain sample collection techniques,
including eDNA and bulk community samples, pretreatment and DNA extraction
protocols. The diverse molecular markers available for different kinds of
samples and target taxonomic groups will be discussed. The students will
learn to design and test custom metabarcoding primers. They will know
about sample tags, library tags, adapter sequences, PCR protocols and
library preparation procedures. Core concepts introduced: good laboratory
practice, proper sample collection, bulk (community DNA) and eDNA samples,
DNA preservation, DNA extraction, PCR, clean up, metabarcoding marker,
universality, specificity, taxonomic range, taxonomic resolution, primer
bias, amplification errors, sequencing errors, DNA contaminations, in
silico PCR, library generation, sequencing platforms, sample indexing,
adapter sequences.

-----

Tuesday 27th – Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 3&4. The USEARCH pipeline.

In this session, we will work with the USEARCH and VSEARCH software
suites, using a real sequence dataset as example for testing our
metabarcoding pipeline. We will outline the steps needed to start
analysing raw data from high-throughput sequencers. The students will
learn about key bioinformatics workflows and they will perform quality
control, sample demultiplexing, paired-end merging, sequence filtering,
removal of chimeric sequences, format conversion, dereplication of unique
sequences, sequence clustering as well as taxonomy assignment using
reference databases. We will run most commands in an R environment using
a user friendly modular wrapper script, with specific focus on when and
why each module is necessary. Core concepts introduced: fastq and fasta
formats, Phred quality score, paired-end alignment, demultiplexing,
sequence filtering, chimeras, dereplication, unique sequences, reads,
singleton sequences, abundance recalculation, OTU clustering, sequence
repositories, identity assignment, BLAST, GenBank, Barcode Of Life
Datasystems (BOLD).

-----

Wednesday 28th – Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 5. The OBITools pipeline I. Workflow, first steps and quality
control. Clustering algorithms with variable thresholds.

In this session, we will work with the OBITools software suite, using the
same dataset we used in USEARCH for testing some alternative metabarcoding
pipelines from a Linux terminal environment. We will also introduce
different algorithms for clustering sequences into MOTUs, such as CROP
and SWARM. We will learn the differences between constant and variable
identity threshold for delineating the MOTUS. Core concepts introduced:
reference clustering, de novo clustering, unsupervised-learning
clustering, Bayesian clustering, step aggregation methods, hard identity
threshold, flexible identity threshold.

Session 6. The OBITools pipeline II. Taxonomic assignment using ecotag.

In this session we will continue with the OBITools pipeline. We will
learn about phylogenetic algorithms for taxonomic assigment. The ecotag
algorithm will be used for adding taxonomic information to the MOTUs
in our example dataset and the results will be compared to those from
other assignment software. The students will learn how to build local
reference databases from the information available in public sequence
repositories and how to add new custom sequences to these local reference
databases. They will also learn how sequence databases interact with
taxonomy databases for retrieving the phylogenetic information for the
assignment algorithms. Core concepts introduced: local reference database,
phylogenetic assignment, best match, assignment of higher taxa, ecoPCR
and ecoPCR format, taxonomic database, taxonomic identifier (taxid).

-----

Thursday 1st – Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 7. Comparing the results from different pipelines. Refining
the final datasets. Collapsing, renormalising and blank
correction. Visualization of results.

In this session, students will learn about procedures for refining and
curating the final datasets obtained from the previous pipelines. They
will learn about blank correction, renormalization procedures for
deleting false positive results, and taxonomy collapsing of related
MOTUs for obtaining enhanced final datasets. We will compare the results
from the different pipelines tested and we will discuss how to interpret
them in order to obtain ecologically relevant information. Core concepts
introduced: renormalization, taxonomy collapsing, blank correction.

Session 8. Presenting the final results. α- and ß- diversity patterns.

In this session we will continue with the presentation of final
results. Students will learn how to plot taxonomic summaries from
their datasets, including krona plots, a graphic representation showing
relative abundances of reads at different taxonomic levels. Resampling
and rarefaction procedures for assessing biodiversity patterns will
be introduced. Qualitative and quantitative indices for assessing
dissimilarity between samples will be explained. We will introduce
the UniFrac dissimilarity distance between samples, an index taking
in account not only abundances of the different MOTUs but also their
taxonomic affinities. Core concepts introduced: taxonomic summary,
krona plots, α-diversity, ß-diversity, rarefaction, MOTU richness,
UniFrac distances, ordination techniques, multidimensional scaling (MDS).

-----

Friday 2nd – Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 9. Experimental design. Customization.

In this session we will learn how to design a successful metabarcoding
project and how to customize it in function of the specific needs. We
will discuss the best strategies for obtaining good results by optimizing
time, money and computing resources. The idea is to make this session
as interactive and useful as possible. We will present some current and
future projects in the format of an open discussion and we will try to
propose the best solutions for every potential problem in a collaborative
way. The rest of the session will be dedicated to introduce current
research and possible future developments of metabarcoding / metagenomics
techniques and to provide a list of useful resources for further learning,
continuous training and future research opportunities. Core concepts
discussed: optimal multiplexing, ecological replication, technical
replication, sequencing depth, price per sample.

Session 10. Hands-on project brainstorming

In small groups the participants will have the opportunity to plan
and develop metabarcoding projects based on their research questions
and taxonomic groups of interest. Project proposals will be presented
and discussed in the form of 5-minute presentations, and they will be
evaluated and improved by interacting with workshop participants. We
will finish the workshop with an interactive open questions session. Core
Concepts: Experimental planning, developing successful research projects
and proposals, concept evaluation and improvement by peer review, using
metabarcoding as a tool to answer exciting research questions.

-----

For more information please visit our website:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course4/

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>
