Dear all,

Physalia-courses provides 3 training courses in biological data analysis,
interpretation and visualization using R.

1) Genomic Data Visualization and Interpretation. 11-15 September 2017,
Berlin (Germany).

Instructors: Drs Obi and Malachi Griffith (Washington University School
of Medicine, US)

Course overview

The advent of rapid and relatively cheap massively parallel sequencing
has dramatically increased the availability of genome, transcriptome,
and epigenome profiling. Analysis workflows and published best practices
are also now available to process raw sequence data into alignments,
variant calls, expression estimates, etc., in relatively standardized file
formats. Interpretation and visualization of these data, often consisting
of thousands to billions of data points, and extracting biological meaning
remains a serious challenge. In this workshop we will explore a number
of best-in-class visualization tools, and provide working examples that
demonstrate important principles of 'omic interpretation strategies.

For more info:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course14/

--

2) Statistics for biologists using R. 18-23 September 2017, Berlin
(Germany).

Instructor: Dr Ken Aho (Idaho State University, US)

Course overview

This course will demonstrate the extensive capabilities of the R
environment, and seek to develop/broaden the competency of participants in
the use of R statistical applications. The course will have two components
presented in morning and afternoon sessions over five days. Component
one (Monday Sept. 18, Tuesday Sept. 19) will emphasize R programming
characteristics including data management, use of existing package
functions, graphics, customized function writing, calling routines from
compiled languages, and documentation. The second component (Wednesday
Sept. 20 - Friday Sept. 22) will address implementation of statistical
analyses with R, particularly linear models. The materials will be
presented using biological examples, making frequent use of the library
asbio (Applied Statistics and Statistical Pedagogy for Biologists).

For more info:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course13/

--

3) Practical GWAS using Linux and R. 23-27 October 2017, Berlin (Germany).

Instructor: Dr. Jing Hua Zhao (University of Cambridge School of Clinical
Medicine, UK)

Course overview

The past decade has witnessed an astonishing development and the universal
use of genome wide association studies (GWAS) in identification and
characterisation of genetic variants underlying disorders and other
variations in human and other species, which has an immense impact
in biomedical research. This is owing to the ability to efficiently
generate and process large quantity of genetic polymorphisms as well as to
integrate with other sources such as gene expression and methylation. To
tackle challenges in GWAS, a lot of methods and techniques have been
established but many others are still evolving. The workshop therefore
intends to give a grand picture as well as practical aspects of GWAS.

For more info:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/course15/

--

For a full list of our training course please visit our website:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/

In the meantime, thank you so much for your attention and participation.

Best regards,

Carlo Pecoraro

--

Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D

Physalia-courses Coordinator

info@physalia-courses.org

http://www.physalia-courses.org/

Twitter: @physacourses

mobile: +49 15771084054

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-courses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

