Symposium on Animal Development and its Evolutionary Variation
17th - 18th September 2017
Department of Zoology
University of Cambridge
Cambridge, UK
(Apologies for cross posting)

Dear Friends and Colleagues,

We wanted to bring your attention to a meeting taking place on 17-18
September in Cambridge (UK) on the subject of Animal Development and its
Evolutionary Variation.  The meeting is intended in part as a celebration
of the contributions of Prof Michael Akam to this field.

On 17th September there will be an evening drinks celebration at the
Department of Zoology. On 18th September there will be a day long
scientific symposium held at the Department of Zoology.  The symposium
will be followed by a celebratory dinner in Trinity College.

The list of confirmed speakers is detailed below.

Keynote speakers

Sean Carroll (University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA)

Matt Scott (Carnegie Institution for Science, USA)

Speakers / Titles

Detlev Arendt (EMBL, Heidelberg, Germany) "Evolution of the centralised
nervous system: a cell type perspective"

Nadia Bakalenko (St Petersburg State University, Russia) "Antisense
transcripts in the nereid Hox clusters"

Erik Clark (University of Cambridge, UK) "Making stripes elegantly"

Cassandra Extavour (Harvard University, USA) "From soma to germ line:
Origin, evolution and molecular mechanisms of the oskar gene"

Jack Green (University of Marseille, France) "How do organs change
size during evolution? The cellular and genetic basis of ovipositor
enlargement in Drosophila suzukii"

Robert Kelsh (University of Bath, UK) "Pigment cells and their
progenitors in the neural crest"

Alfonso Martinez-Arias (University of Cambridge, UK) "What in vitro
studies teach us about the evolution of axial elongation in vertebrates"

Christen Mirth (Monash University, Australia) "Plasticity in body size
and shape: how environmental conditions modify development to generate
phenotypic variation."

Tassos Pavlopoulos (Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia Farm,
USA) "Arthropod limb morphogenesis and diversification: lessons from
a crustacean"

Mariana Wolfner (Cornell University, USA) "Not your average peep-show:
molecules and physiology that mediate post-mating changes in female
Diptera"

To register for the event please follow the following link:

http://onlinesales.admin.cam.ac.uk/conferences-and-events/department-of-zoology/symposium-on-animal-development-and-its-evolutionary-variation

In case of any queries regarding registration please
contact: Paula McPhee, Department of Zoology, University of
Cambridge Tel: +44 1223 336621 Email: admin@zoo.cam.ac.uk

Please forward this email to any other interested parties.  We hope to
see you in September!

Sincerely,

Claudio Alonso
Michalis Averof
Paul Brakefield
James Castelli-Gair
David Stern
Max Telford

Max Telford
Professor of Zoology
Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment,
University College London,
Darwin Building,
Gower Street,
London WC1E 6BT, UK.
Tel: +44 (0)20 7679 2554 (Internal: 32554)
Fax: +44 (0)20 7679 7096
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/biology/academic-staff/telford/telford.html

Open access journal EvoDevo:  http://www.evodevojournal.com/

"Telford, Max" <m.telford@ucl.ac.uk>

