Thematic school

Remote sensing for tropical biodiversity mapping and management across
scales
Faculty:
David Coomes, University of Cambridge, UK
Mathias Disney, University College London, UK
Maria Joao Ferreira dos Santos, Universiteit Utrecht, Netherlands
Jean-Baptiste Feret, IRSTEA, Montpellier, France
Sassan Saatchi, NASA JPL Pasadena, USA
Convenors: Jer0me Chave (CNRS, Toulouse, France)
and Gregoire Vincent (IRD, Montpellier, France)
Dates: 25-29 September 2017
Venue: Hotel des Roches, Kourou, French Guiana
Context: Earth surface is now being sensed continuously at high
temporal and spatial resolution by multiple space-borne instruments.

When combined with appropriate methodologies, these sources of
information will allow monitoring biodiversity at the global scale. In
addition, technologically advanced sensors such as Lidar and imaging
spectrometers are becoming increasingly available on airborne
platforms. They are part of the equipment dedicated to ground
observation, and allow an exploration of the structural heterogeneity
of the vegetation, spanning orders of spatial scale. Such technologies
already proved their potential and allow multiple applications for the
monitoring of complex ecosystems.

Objectives: The Thematic School is open in priority, but not
exclusively, to early-career scientists (PhD students, post-doctoral
associates) interested in exploring the potential of remote sensing in
tropical biodiversity mapping and management. For instance, canopy
heterogeneity is correlated with insect diversity in tropical forests,
and canopy moisture is a proxy for amphibian diversity. Environmental
variables can also be coupled with biodiversity occurrence data using
species distribution modelling. Mapping of species richness derived
from imaging spectroscopy is another attractive opportunity. These
techniques have a direct implication for the management of tropical
ecosystems, as they help prioritize areas for conservation. The week
will be organized around working sessions, evening lectures and will
include a visit to a field station (Paracou). The participants are
expected to apply with a clearly stated research problem including
already acquired datasets. During the meeting sessions, they will
collaborate with other members of the group. Teachers will give evening
lectures and provide guidance. Individual projects should result in
publishable papers.

How to apply: Applicants should submit their application preferably
before July 12th, 2017 to Jessica Delhaye
(jessica.delhaye@univ-tlse3.fr). The application package should include
two pdf files: (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) a motivation letter
detailing your proposed research project and the nature of available
datasets. This could include remote sensing data analysis, biodiversity
modelling or other questions relevant to tropical forest biodiversity.

Costs: The program will cover accommodation, meals, and transport
within French Guiana, but not travel costs to French Guiana.

Jessica Delhaye
IR - Chargee de projet LabEx CEBA
Evolution et Diversite Biologique - UMR 5174 - Universite Toulouse 3
Paul Sabatier
Batiment 4R1 - Bureau 122
118 Route de Narbonne - 31062
Toulouse Cedex 9 - France
jessica.delhaye@univ-tlse3.fr
0033 (0)5 61 55 74 86
Laboratoire d'Excellence - Centre d'Etude de la Biodiversite
Amazonienne
www.labex-ceba.fr

jessica delhaye <jessica.delhaye@live.fr>

