Reminder: only 3 days left to apply and only a few places left!

Next Generation Biologists: Essential Computing Skills for Molecular
Biology is a BBSRC-STARs programme-funded project to introduce and train
researchers in the essential skills and best practices in scientific
computing and bioinformatics. The format of the materials and the nature
of the delivery will be based on the successful "Software Carpentry"
(http://software-carpentry.org/) blended-learning model where students
learn by developing skills through hands-on live coding and peer
programming sessions led by experienced Software Carpentry instructors
and supported by a small team of helpers.

AUDIENCE

The first workshop is aimed at researchers with little or no experience
in programming and data analysis who nevertheless need these approaches
in their research.

ORGANISERS AND INSTRUCTORS

The main organisers of the workshops are Dr Mary J. O'Connell
(@Evol_Molly), Dr Martin Callaghan (both at the University of Leeds)
and Dr Jarek Bryk (@jarekbryk at the University of Huddersfield). Drs
Callaghan and Bryk are Software Carpentry Instructors. The project
is a joint initiative of the University of Leeds and the University
of Huddersfield.

PRELIMINARY PROGRAMME

Monday

Introduction to the fundamentals of UNIX shell, software development
and best practices, delivered using Python but easily transferable to
other programming languages.

Tuesday

Introduction to fundamentals of R with R Studio, including data
and analysis reproducibility, concluded with example analysis of
high-throughput data.

Wednesday

A "hackathon" day, during which participants will use skills learned
in earlier days to solve a real-life data analysis problem of their
choosing.

DATE

The first workshop will be run on the 3rd-5th July 2017 (Monday to
Wednesday inclusive).

VENUE

The first workshop will take place at the University of Leeds, UK.

COSTS

The workshop is free of charge for all BBSRC-funded researchers, as well
as staff and students from the Universities of Leeds and Huddersfield. For
all other participants a course fee of 170 will apply that will need
to be paid before the workshop begins. Travel and accommodation costs
are *not* covered by the organisers.

HOW TO APPLY

To apply for a place on the workshop, prepare a maximum one-page long
curriculum vitae and a 200 word statement detailing why this course if
of particular importance to your current research. Please combine the
two *into a single pdf file* and send it to Dr Mary J. O'Connell at
m.oconnell[at]leeds.ac.uk *by midnight 15th June
2016*. The workshop will be limited to 25 participants. The selection
committee will notify successful applicants by the end of 16th June.

More details about the project and the workshop are available on our
website at http://nextgenbiologists.org. We are also on Twitter at
@nextgenbiol (the "l" is important :-).

University of Huddersfield inspiring tomorrow's professionals.

Jarek Bryk <J.Bryk@hud.ac.uk>

