Researcher Links Workshop - Sustainable Aquatic Resource Development -
Mexico

Dear colleagues,

I am pleased to announce a workshop in Mexico focussed on sustainable use
of aquatic resources, including aquaculture and fisheries. Topics to be
addressed will be related to invasive species, pollution, conservation,
resource management and technological innovation. The workshop will address
these issues from evolutionary and ecological approaches.

Dates: 12-14th September 2017, Felipe Carrillo Puerto, Quintana Roo,
Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico

Number of participants: 24 (12 from Mexico, 12 from the UK).

Discussions will be used to establish the current status of aquatic
resource use in Mexico, and identify opportunities for research
collaboration between institutions in the UK and Mexico. A key outcome from
the workshop will be a horizon-scanning paper, identifying future issues in
aquatic sustainable development, accompanied by information on the
solutions, collaborations and skill sets required.

We have a strictly limited number of places available - those attending
will have their travel, food and accommodation expenses covered by the
Newton Fund Researcher Links programme. The workshop is primarily focussed
on early career researchers, defined as up to ten years post-PhD research
experience accounting for career breaks. For the funded places we aim to
attract researchers with a range of research expertise and viewpoints
relating to the core workshop theme. Those attending should have an
academic base in the UK or Mexico.

If this fits your research interests and career stage, and you are
interested in attending, please complete the expression of interest form by
9th June 2017.
See the workshop webpage has further details,
http://sustainableaquaticresourcesmexico.weebly.com/

Please feel free to forward this information to others who you think may be
interested.

With best wishes,

Dr Martin Genner
School of Biological Sciences
University of Bristol
Bristol Life Sciences Building
24 Tyndall Avenue
Bristol
BS8 1TQ

"bzmjg@bristol.ac.uk" <bzmjg@bristol.ac.uk>

