Dear All,

Great news!

The deadline to apply for the Environmental DNA and Metabarcoding
Course in Sicily has been extended. Now you can apply until June 16th
at  info@sciecenter.org .

Don't miss out this great opportunity to come to SCIE Center to learn
a novel approach to study aquatic ecosystems.

Below the course information:

Dates 3-9 September 

Program - 7 days/6 nights

Number of participants - (25 max)

Program Fee per Student -  euro  1290

Venue - SCIE Center, Sicily, Italy www.sciecenter.org 

 

Course Description: 

Environmental DNA (eDNA) coupled with metabarcoding represents a powerful
tool to investigate ecosystem complexity and reveal hidden biodiversity.

This novel approach is revolutionising the way we assess and monitor
aquatic ecosystems.

This course will provide the students with the basic knowledge and skills
required to apply the eDNA metabarcoding approach in aquatic environments.

The course program includes a combination of lectures, field activities in
the Plemmirio Marine Protected Area, lab-work and data analysis to provide

the students with a thorough understanding of the use of eDNA in molecular
ecology, with hands-on experience.

This program is aimed to postgraduate students (masters and PhD students),
postdoctoral and early-career researchers.

The course will be held on the scenic island of Ortigia, the historic
centre of Siracusa in Sicily, Italy.

Course Lecturers: 

Prof. Stefano Mariani, University of Salford, United Kingdom

http://www.marianilab.org/stefano-mariani

Dr. Owen S. Wangensteen, University of Salford, United Kingdom

http://www.marianilab.org/owen-wangensteen-1

Judith Bakker, MSc., University of Salford, United Kingdom

http://www.marianilab.org/judith-bakker

Dr. Alexia Massa-Gallucci, SCIE Center, Italy

http://sciecenter.org/about/

 

Course Content:

What is eDNA. The role and usefulness of eDNA for the study of aquatic
biodiversity. Application of eDNA.

Sampling methods and strategies. Sample storage, transport and processing.

Analysis of samples: extraction of DNA. Choice of primers,
species-specific vs multispecies approaches. Metabarcoding. PCR-free
approaches.

eDNA metabarcoding: library preparation and sequencing.

eDNA metabarcoding: bioinformatics.

Down-stream ecological analysis.

Powers and pitfalls of eDNA. The Future of eDNA.

 

Application and Course Fees:

Application by June 16th 2017 at info@sciecenter.org  

To apply send a letter of support from your academic supervisor and
a half page letter of intention detailing your research interests and
experience and

how you would envisage employing eDNA in your current or future project.

Fee per student  euro  1290 includes:

Accommodation in B&B, welcome and farewell dinners, refreshments during
the course, transport to the fieldwork site, general liability insurance,

certificate of participation, tuition, SCIE Center 24 hour support.

For more information, enquiries and booking:

Email: info@sciecenter.org    web: www.sciecenter.org    
tel.: +39 366 1907984

 

Spread the information among your colleagues and all those who might
be interested.

 

Best regards,

Dr. Alexia Massa-Gallucci.

Dr. Alexia Massa-Gallucci
Lecturer in Marine Biology,
Course Coordinator for Environmental Science, 
SCIE (Sicily Centre for International Education), 
Via Landolina 5, 
96100 Siracusa
Italy

massagalluccia@sciecenter.org 

www.sciecenter.org 

Alexia Massa Gallucci <alexia.massagallucci@gmail.com>

