Butterflies as Genomic Models in Ecology & Evolution

27-28 July 2017

Centre for Ecology & Conservation, University of Exeter, Penryn Campus,
Cornwall, UK

Two day international workshop centred on addressing the challenges
involved in whole genome sequencing to achieve novel high impact insights
in ecology and evolution using butterflies as a model system. The workshop
will feature presentations from leading international research groups in
the field, providing examples of how genomic data can be used to tackle
fundamental questions in evolutionary ecology.

Please email requests for attendance, and presentation
titles/abstracts (up to 150 words), by 20th June to:
exeterbutterflies@gmail.com

Successful requests for attendance and presentations will be notified
by 27th June.

List of invited speakers and provision titles:

Professor Haruhiko Fujiwara, University of Tokyo, Japan - Molecular
biological and genomics approach to reveal the genetic mechanism and
evolution of Batesian mimicry supergene in Papilio butterflies.

Dr Krushnamegh Kunte, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore,
India - The Evolution and Genetics of an Iconic Adaptation: A Population
Genomics Story in 40 Parts.

Dr Niclas Backström, University of Uppsala, Sweden - Genomic approaches
to investigate adaptation, speciation and karyotype evolution in
wood-white.(Leptidea) butterflies

Professor Jim Mallet, Harvard University, USA - Heliconius butterfly
genomics is messing up our understanding of species.

Dr Mattieu Joron, University of Montpellier, France - The ecology of
chromosomal inversions: introgression, demography, and the maintenance
of polymorphism.

Dr Beatriz Vicoso, Institute of Science and Technology, Austria - Sex
chromosome evolution in Lepidoptera.

Dr Simon Martin, University of Cambridge, UK - Suppressed recombination
in the African Queen hybrid zone and the origin of a neo-W.

Dr Konrad Lohse, University of Edinburgh, UK - Are speciation islands
real? A test in Heliconius butterflies.

Professor Mark Blaxter & LepBase, University of Edinburgh, UK - LepBase:
a community database for lepidopteran genomics.

Dr Richard Merrill, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Munich, Germany -
Genetic dissection of assortative mating behaviour.

Dr Marcus Kronforst, University of Chicago, USA - TBA.

Dr Alexander Hayward
Room 3052a, Daphne du Maurier Building
Centre for Ecology and Conservation
University of Exeter, Penryn Campus
alex.hayward@exeter.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0) 1326 259147

"Hayward, Alex" <Alex.Hayward@exeter.ac.uk>

